Table of Contents
Why is my freezer running but not freezing?
Other Common Freezer Problems
Sears Home Services Can Get Your Freezer Back to Working Order
Explore these common freezer problems and their likely causes, providing insight from Sears' expert technicians. From frost build-up to malfunctioning components, understanding these issues can empower you to troubleshoot effectively and potentially restore your freezer's functionality without professional assistance.
KEY TAKEAWAYS
Don’t let your freezer freeze you out. We’ll help identify the likely causes of the most common freezer repairs.
Has your frozen food lost its chill? Is your meat so freezer-burnt it’s entirely white? Is the freezer moaning and groaning like Old Man Winter himself — or worse, not working at all?
When your freezer isn’t freezing, it might not be a catastrophe requiring a repair or all-out replacement. Before calling in the experts for a repair, you can sometimes do a little sleuthing yourself — armed with some inside information from the technicians at Sears.
Here are the most common freezer problems that Sears’ experts see–and the likely culprits behind them.
Ensure there’s sufficient amount of product in the freezer section, but that it’s not jammed-packed. It’s recommended to keep the freezer 70% to 85% full. Too much stuff in there will limit air circulation within the appliance — and too little will cause all the cold air to spill out of the appliance every time it’s opened. Keep things evenly dispersed near the middle of the shelves so as not to block any vents or interfere with proper air circulation.
Frost accumulating inside the freezer compartment can block the vents that carry cold air into the compartment. Most freezers today have auto defrost, so check to see if the door has been left open, or if the door seal is worn. You’ll need to have the seal replaced if it’s damaged or torn. If the seal looks okay, a technician should inspect the freezer to determine the problem. If your freezer doesn’t have auto-defrost, you should manually defrost it following the recommendations in your owner’s manual.
Dirty coils won’t cool down refrigerant before it enters the evaporator, resulting in poor cooling performance. Clean the condenser coils if they’re caked with lint and dust. You may need to have a service technician clean the condenser coils if they’re not easily accessible.
A failed evaporator fan can cause freezer cooling problems because it won’t circulate air through the freezer cabinet. You’ll need to have a service technician replace the evaporator fan if it doesn’t run when activated.
Freezers with condenser coils may also have a condenser fan that pushes air across the condenser coils. The freezer won’t cool well when the condenser fan isn’t running while the evaporator is operating.
The freezer compressor is a pump that moves refrigerant through the sealed system, creating the cold air. If the compressor or the compressor start relay stops working, the freezer won’t freeze. If you listen to the freezer for about 30 minutes but don’t hear the familiar hum when it operations, it’s possible the compressor is the problem. A certified refrigeration technician is required if the compressor fails.
A freezer during normal operation can make a variety of noises from clicking during the ice harvest cycle and sizzling or gurgling during defrost to swishing or whirring sounds from the fan motor.
Diagnosing a noise complete can be very difficult. What sounds like humming on one day might sound like buzzing on another. Loudness is often relative; so what is considered loud at night time might be quiet during the day. And different conditions can cause the freezer to sound different.
The key question to ask yourself when hearing noises is are they any other issues going on with the freezer. If other issues are present, fixing those issues will more than likely also fix the noises.
The most likely reason water is present under the freezer is a frozen-over defrost drain. If the drain is frozen, it should be defrosted and then cleaned out.
If the freezer has a water hookup for an ice maker and/or water dispenser, the leak could be coming from the house water supply, the water line, or the inlet valve. If the water line or inlet valve are faulty, they should be replaced.
If the water is coming from the freezer itself, it may be due to the condensation pan overfilling. Excess frost on the evaporator coil could produce more water than the pan can hold. This problem might be caused by high humidity areas or frequent opening of the freezer door. A missing access cover might also prevent proper air flow and proper evaporation of water from the pan. If the condensation pan is cracked, it should be replaced.
Make sure the appliance has power going to it. Check whether the light inside the refrigerator goes on when you open the door.
If not, plug something like a hairdryer or lamp into the outlet. If that device also doesn’t work, the outlet doesn’t have power going to it. Look for a tripped circuit breaker or tripped GFI outlet. Contact a licensed electrician for more serious electrical problems.
Make sure the appliance has power going to it. Check whether the light inside the refrigerator goes on when you open the door.
If not, plug something like a hairdryer or lamp into the outlet. If that device also doesn’t work, the outlet doesn’t have power going to it. Look for a tripped circuit breaker or tripped GFI outlet. Contact a licensed electrician for more serious electrical problems.
If there’s power going to the outlet, there may be an issue with the main control or user interface boards, or the temperature-monitoring devices such as the sensors, or the thermostat might be bad. Further troubleshooting will be needed to pinpoint and resolve the issue.
If the freezer is freezing but your ice cream seems to soft, check the temperature setting is correct. The recommended setting for a freezer is 0°F (-18°C).
The freezer should be operated in an environment between 55°F (13°C) and 110°F (43°C). If the environment is too cold, the freezer may not get sufficient run time to maintain its temperature. If the temperature is too warm, the appliance will have a hard time getting the interior down to the desired temperature.
Dirty condenser coils or a broken fan motor can also cause insufficient freezing.
Here are some additional explanations about why the freezer temperature is too warm.
While some causes for a freezer troubles are easily corrected, many require more troubleshooting to pinpoint and resolve the issue. There are times when you'll need for calling in the experts. If your freezer isn’t freezing working as it should , schedule a repair with our repair experts today.
For generations, Sears Home Services has been the trusted source for appliance repair. If your refrigerator is not cooling, our refrigerator repair experts are here to help.
Trust our skilled technicians to repair your freezer promptly, regardless of where you bought it.
Learn how to defrost your freezer with expert tips from Sears Home Services.
Find expert tips for finding the cause of excessive frost inside your freezer.
Learn how to drain a GE dishwasher with our step-by-step guide. Keep your dishwasher running smoothly with our expert tips.
If you’ve been hearing loud and/or strange noises coming from your fridge, it may be a sign that your appliance needs some attention or even professional repair.

Providing your address ensures an accurate price
This is the address you entered:


,
                        



Edit Address

By clicking above, you agree that American Home Shield may contact you at the email address provided with information about American Home Shield products.View Privacy Policy
 You are requesting information from AHS regarding our products and services. By clicking the button above, you consent to receive email at the email address you provided, as well as prerecorded messages, autodialed phone calls and text messages at the phone number you provided. You understand that your consent is not a condition of purchase.View Privacy Policy
Freezers are the dependable appliances of the kitchen. You can always trust that your midnight snack craving will be satisfied simply by sleepily stumbling into the kitchen and perusing your faithful freezer. From frozen vegetables, fruit, and meat to ready-to-bake pizzas and delectable ice cream, your freezer is the go-to place for last-minute dining. But what if your freezer is not freezing?
When your freezer stops doing the one thing it is meant to do—freezing—don’t let it get you down. Some simple fixes could help get it back to keeping your groceries icy cold in no time. Review this handy list of freezer issues and quick fixes compiled by American Home Shield®. 
How Does My Freezer Work?
Before delving into troubleshooting issues if your freezer is not working, it’s helpful to understand how a freezer works. 
Most freezers work by using a cooling pipe filled with fast-evaporating liquid coolant. This process involves compressing, condensing, and evaporating the refrigerant gas through the freezer’s mechanical components, which include the 
What Are Some Common Freezer Problems?
A freezer not fulfilling its icy destiny doesn’t necessarily mean disaster. In fact, many issues related to your freezer not working can be remedied through simple troubleshooting. Before getting in a freezer fluster, take a moment to chill out, diagnose, and fix the issue.
A freezer that runs constantly may stem from multiple causes. One cause is that the temperature control thermostat is not working properly, forcing the freezer to run constantly to try and meet the correct temperature. If this is the case, you can try resetting the thermostat or replacing it altogether. 
Another reason is that the evaporator fan motor or condenser fan motor is malfunctioning. If this is the issue, it’s probably time to call a professional. 
Your freezer will likely make a lot of noises as part of its regular running. For example, if it sounds like your freezer is making popcorn, it’s probably because the inside walls are expanding and contracting through temperature fluctuations. Buzzing, humming, gurgling and clicking noises are also quite normal and signify that your fridge and freezer are working. 
However, new or excessively loud sounds might indicate that something is wrong with your freezer. These noises could mean that your condenser coils are dirty, blocking proper airflow. To remedy the situation, you can clean your condenser coils every two to three months using a refrigerator coil brush. 
The noises could also mean that your freezer’s evaporator fan isn’t working correctly; if this is the case, you should repair or replace it soon. If the evaporator fan is damaged or old, you may notice a loud buzzing or clicking noise. Your freezer might also run less cold than usual. 
If your freezer is leaking water, or if you have frost in the freezer, you likely have a clogged or (ironically) frozen defrost drain. You can unclog it by filling a turkey baster with hot water and using it to clear out the drain tube.

                    Thinking about coverage?
                

                    Sounds like a plan. Find the warranty that fits you best.
                
Why Is My Freezer Not Freezing?
A freezer not freezing can make even the most relaxed person feel hot under the collar. A freezer that’s stopped working doesn’t have to mean hundreds of dollars down the drain. Figuring out what causes a freezer to stop freezing is the first step to fixing it—saving your freezer and your budget.
If you find your freezer cold but not freezing, the first thing you should do is test your freezer door. You may have failed to notice that an item is sticking out enough to keep the door ajar, meaning that precious cold air is escaping your freezer. 
Similarly, older or poorly installed freezer door seals might cause your freezer temperature to drop. You can test your freezer door seals by placing a piece of paper or dollar bill between the freezer and door. Then, close the freezer door. If you can pull out the dollar bill, your freezer door sealer needs to be repaired or replaced. 
Another reason your freezer is not working could be poor packing of its contents. Make sure that there is enough space under the evaporator fan, usually in the rear of the freezer, so that the cold air emerging from the fan can reach everywhere in your freezer. 
Dirty condenser coils can reduce your freezer’s overall cooling capacity since dirty coils make the condenser retain heat rather than release it. This causes the compressor to overcompensate. To prevent this from happening, make sure to clean your condenser coils regularly. 
More serious reasons that your freezer is not freezing involve malfunctioning internal components. If your evaporator fan is not working correctly, first unplug your refrigerator and remove and clean the evaporator fan blades. Ice buildup on evaporator fan blades often prevents your freezer from properly circulating air. If you notice a bent fan blade, you will need to replace it. 
If the evaporator fan blades are spinning freely, but the fan won’t run, you may need to replace a defective motor or repair broken wires between the fan motor and thermostat control. 
Finally, a freezer that isn’t freezing might mean that your start relay is not working as it should, meaning that it isn’t giving power to your compressor. You can conduct a physical test on your start relay by unplugging your refrigerator, opening up the compartment at the back of your freezer, unplugging the start relay from the compressor, and then shaking the start relay. If you hear a rattling noise that sounds like dice in a can, your start relay will have to be replaced. If it does not rattle, that might mean that you have a compressor issue, which will require professional repair assistance. 
Tips for Freezer Maintenance
A consistently cold freezer is a happy freezer. In addition to keeping the coolest appliance in the house as cold as possible and properly wrapping food for storage, here are the tried-and-true ways to enjoy uninterrupted coolness.
1. Review the owner’s manual for maintenance instructions. Familiarizing yourself with your freezer now will do wonders to help you keep your cool when it’s time to maintain it or fix it down the road.
2. Periodically check the freezer’s thermostat. For a freezer to perform optimally, its thermostat should be set at zero degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius). If your model doesn’t have a built-in thermostat, use a thermometer to check the temperature.
3. Keep the interior clean. With a damp rag and a bit of dish liquid, you can have your freezer sparkling in no time.
As with anything you depend on every day, the better you treat your freezer, the better it will treat you (and your food) in return.
It’s also a good idea to sign up for a home warranty plan that includes refrigerator warranty coverage. A home warranty from American Home Shield offers coverage for home systems and appliances, including your refrigerator and freezer. To ensure that your budget is protected from issues due to normal wear and tear—like your freezer not freezing—check out our pricing and plans today.
DIY tips are for informational purposes only. Please be sure to take the appropriate safety precautions and ensure your project complies with any applicable federal, state, or local laws and regulations.
AHS assumes no responsibility, and specifically disclaims all liability, for your use of any and all information contained herein.
Have a plan for your home when things don't go according to plan

                 New Jersey Residents: The product being offered is a service contract and is separate and distinct from any product or service warranty which may be provided by the home builder or manufacturer.
            

Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.

Create a new account & save 10% using code SAVETEN24❖ See Details
❖Ends July 10, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
Providing your exact location will allow us to ensure our products are available in your area.
ZIP Code:
Hello,



                        All Merchandise in Cart:
                    


                        Order Discount:
                    


                        Total: (Before Taxes, Shipping, and Services):
                    

Link your shopping cart across all your devices!
 to your account to save and access your shopping cart on your desktop, tablet, or mobile device.
Be sure to check out our latest offers to start saving!

                            Cooktops
                        

                            Dishwashers
                        

                            Microwaves
                        

                            Refrigeration 
                        

                            Ranges
                        

                            Smart Appliances
                        

                            Range Hoods
                        

                            Wall Ovens
                        

                            Washers
                        

                            Dryers
                        

                            Laundry Sets
                        

                            Commercial Laundry
                        

                            Smart Appliances
                        

                            Home Solutions
                        

                            Water Filters
                        

                            Appliance Cleaners
                        

                            Kitchen Parts & Accessories
                        

                            Laundry Parts & Accessories
                        

                            Appliance Sales
                        

                            Whirlpool® Outlet
                        

                            Discount Programs
                        

                            Financing
                        

                            Product Support
                        

                            Repair or Replace
                        
Additional contact info and hours of operation.

*
      Required Information
    

Forgot your Password?


or

Complete Your Account
Whirlpool will be using the following information we gathered from the external platform you selected to create your account.
block.addtocart.message

                        Session Time Out
                    

                            Your session is about to expire.
                        

                        Session Timed Out
                    

                            Your session has expired.
                        
When it comes to food storage, it’s essential to maintain optimal freezer temperatures. Storing food in a broken freezer may put your family at risk, but it can also reduce the lifespan of your appliance as it struggles to maintain optimal temperatures.
The optimal temperature for freezer food storage is 0° F or below. If the temperature is any higher, then you may be experiencing freezer problems. Get ideas and tips for how to fix a freezer with this step-by-step guide.
You may be able to complete simple freeze repairs like lightbulb changes, gasket cleaning and door blockages by consulting the troubleshooting section of your owner's manual. To find product-specific information for your Whirlpool® freezer, visit the Whirlpool Manuals & Literatures page. Professional service is strongly recommended for all other freezer repairs.
For professional support for your Whirlpool® refrigerator or freezer, visit the Whirlpool Customer Care page. You’ll be able to access appliance-specific resources, order replacement parts and schedule service appointments. You can also visit the Whirlpool YouTube channel for more helpful information. 
Try these simple fixes first when it comes to repairing your freezer. These common troubleshooting issues may help you avoid a service call. Get a better understanding of how to fix a freezer with these tips and ideas. For tips on solving other freezer problems, check out our freezer troubleshooting guide.
Cleaning agent and cleaning cloths
Vacuum with crevice attachment
Ice-pick or scraper 
To be sure your appliance is set to the appropriate temperature, check your appliance’s control settings. However, if your freezer is cold but not freezing, it may be time to inspect the thermostat. Try changing the thermostat from the lowest setting to the highest setting. If you don’t hear a click sound, then a professional replacement is recommended.
Some freezer problems can be solved by clearing out the freezer’s shelves. Overpacking can result in a covered evaporator fan and airflow blockage, so avoid overcrowding your freezer and store only as much food as the dimensions of your appliance will allow. Take the opportunity to wipe down exposed areas to remove lingering dirt, dust or food particles.
If you’re experiencing freezing issues with your combination refrigerator-freezer, check the state of your condenser coils, which are usually accessible from the back or bottom of the fridge. When dirt builds up on the condenser coils, the cooling capacity of the appliance is weakened. You can use a vacuum with a crevice attachment to remove dust and keep your condenser coils clean.
 
Be sure to check your Use and Care Guide for model-specific maintenance recommendations.
 
Break down built-up ice to release congestion and allow your freezer to reach and maintain an acceptable temperature for proper food storage. When frost layers onto the interior walls of the freezer, the freezer must work harder to maintain its temperature. However, note that because most modern freezers have auto-defrost functionalities, a freezer that is accumulating ice too quickly should be evaluated by a professional.
 
In addition to knowing how to properly defrost a freezer, there are several ways to help your kitchen appliances hold their temperatures more effectively:
Keep fridge and freezer components clean: Be sure to regularly check condenser coils for dirt build-up.
Ensure airways are open: All air vents and fans should be kept clear to ensure optimal airflow and temperature regulation.
Shop the latest deals on select Whirlpool major appliances   Shop Now
Are you looking for a refrigerator or freezer to help you store your food and bring culinary creations to life? Whirlpool® refrigerators and freezers provide fresh and frozen food storage that works for your busy kitchen. Discover the appliance that’s right for you.















Ready for more tips, home hacks and appliance guides?

 Model:  



Color:  



Quantity:  



Subscribe to Receive  
:
                            




Total Price:  



                     Connect with Us
                  
 
®/™ © 2023 Whirlpool. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area

 
®/™ © 2023 Whirlpool. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area
Hang in there, we are looking for alternate products just for you.
Have You Considered These?
We use your information in accordance with our privacy policy.

Unlock prices
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
 when you use code SAVETEN24 on your first purchase with a new account
Buy more, save more
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. While supplies last.

Discount applied in cart
Flash sale
Ends 6/19/24
Ends June 19, 2024 10:00 AM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off sale and regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on www.whirlpool.com . Offer subject to change. No cash value. While supplies last.
on select appliances when you use promo code ENJOY10
Limited-time offer
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery and install services vary by location- see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Only valid on new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers and dryers.
Use promo code LAUNDRYINSTALL
Available now!
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 10:00AM EST. Excludes ground-shipped products. Discount taken off regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, microwaves, wall ovens, ranges, cooktops, hoods, and dishwashers. While supplies last.
Discover the best deals on select closeout appliances

Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery, haul-away and install services vary by location - see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Dollar threshold based on sale price of in-home delivery products excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid on new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. Cannot be combined with Professional discounts. 
Discount applied in cart
Account Holder Exclusives
On Select Appliances


              r/fixit has temporarily gone dark to protest the proposed changes to Reddit's API access policies.

**Be Excellent To Each Other.**
            

Use code "FREEDELIVERY" for all majors appliances $399+ ❖ See Details
❖Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Delivered to a single U.S. address. Excludes ground shipped products. $399 based on sale price of in-home delivery products excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul away. Cannot be combined with other offers. Can be combined with SAVETEN24 and BMSM. Only valid for new orders on http://maytag.com . Major appliances limited to refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, wall ovens, microwaves, dishwashers, hoods, beverage & wine centers, ice makers and compactors.
Providing your exact location will allow us to ensure our products are available in your area.
ZIP Code:
Hello,



                        All Merchandise in Cart:
                    


                        Order Discount:
                    


                        Total: (Before Taxes, Shipping, and Services):
                    

Link your shopping cart across all your devices!
 to your account to save and access your shopping cart on your desktop, tablet, or mobile device.
Be sure to check out our latest offers to start saving!
BEST-RATED WASHING MACHINES FROM MAYTAG®
Find the best washer for your laundry needs.
EXPLORE DIFFERENT TYPES OF COOKTOPS AND THEIR BENEFITS
Explore different types of cooktops and learn more about their benefits.
BEST MAYTAG® DRYER FOR YOU
Trying to find the best clothes dryer for your home? Let us help.
HOW TO REMOVE GREASE STAINS FROM CLOTHES
Our guide to grease stains will help you remove them from common fabrics.
Additional contact info and hours of operation.

*
      Required Information
    

Forgot your Password?


or

Complete Your Account
Maytag will be using the following information we gathered from the external platform you selected to create your account.
block.addtocart.message

                        Session Time Out
                    

                            Your session is about to expire.
                        

                        Session Timed Out
                    

                            Your session has expired.
                        
Is your freezer not cold enough? Some freezer issues can be resolved by rearranging the frozen items, while other causes may require a closer look.
If your freezer struggles to stay cold for too long, you run the risk of not only spoiling food but also possibly reducing the lifespan of the appliance. When something goes wrong with your freezer’s cooling system, the problem should be fixed right away. Some freezer problems can be resolved on your own or with the help of a professional while others can signal that it’s time for an appliance upgrade. Before you schedule a service call, learn how to troubleshoot these common causes that keep your freezer from freezing.
Whether you have a chest or upright freezer, or refrigerator freezer combination, there may be a few reasons why your freezer is cold but not freezing. A freezer may not be cold enough due to user error, such as packing in too much food or not properly closing the door. However, sometimes parts to your freezer wear out over time and may affect your appliance’s freezing capabilities. Some parts are simple to install as DIY fixes, but others need professional help.
Always check your freezer’s Use and Care Guide for model-specific troubleshooting instructions.
The following potential causes may help you determine why your freezer isn’t freezing:
If your freezer is not working, the first thing to check is if the shelves are packed too tightly. Overstuffed freezers can cause an airflow blockage, especially when the evaporator fan is blocked. If your freezer is not cold enough, try clearing off your freezer shelves. By clearing and reorganizing food, and getting rid of items possibly forgotten in the back of the freezer, you can make sure the evaporator fan has proper airflow. If you find your freezer is consistently overpacked, you may benefit from a Maytag® Deep Freezer for a surplus of frozen foods and bulky items.
Excess frost buildup on the walls of your freezer can congest the vents and coils that keep your freezer functioning. If it’s not working, you can defrost your freezer to melt buildup to help your freezer maintain its proper temperature. Keep in mind that most modern freezers have auto defrost, so if you have frost buildup, it may indicate a bigger issue. You might need to consult a service professional for further evaluation.
If you have a refrigerator freezer combination that isn’t freezing, dirty condenser coils may be the cause. When coils aren’t maintained properly, it can reduce the cooling capacity of your freezer. To clean the condenser coils, you can vacuum the coils with a crevice attachment. 
 
If you have an upright or chest freezer, the coils are in the walls of the freezer and are likely not the cause of your appliance’s malfunction. Be sure to check your Use and Care Guide for model-specific maintenance recommendations.
Your freezer’s start relay provides power to the compressor. If the relay malfunctions, the compressor can’t run and your freezer will begin to thaw. Listen for the routine humming of the compressor as it starts the cooling process. If you don’t hear the humming kick-start within 30 minutes, there may be an issue with the start relay. Check your product manual for a proper diagnosis or schedule a service technician. 
Your freezer’s evaporator fan motor keeps cold air circulating throughout your appliance. A malfunction of this motor stops your freezer’s cooling function. Depending on the model of your freezer, the evaporator fan motor shuts off when the door is open. To check the function of the motor, open your freezer door and manually hold down the freezer door switch. If the motor does not begin to run, it may need to be replaced by a professional.
If your chest freezer is not freezing, you may want to inspect its thermostat. Typically, most modern refrigerators and freezers have an electronic control and use temperature sensing devices to regulate the temperature. Your chest freezer’s thermostat is the control hub of the inner mechanisms necessary to regulate your appliance’s temperature. It controls the compressor, the evaporator fan motor and the condenser fan motor. When there’s a problem with a chest freezer’s thermostat, those parts are unable to do their job in keeping the freezer cold. To determine if the thermostat is the cause of a freezer not getting cold enough, change the thermostat from the lowest to the highest setting and listen for a click. If you don’t hear a click, then it likely needs to be replaced by a professional.
If your freezer is not cold, the problem may be caused by a broken condenser fan motor. The condenser fan draws cool air through the condenser and over your freezer’s coils. If this fan is broken, your freezer’s inner temperature will rise, and the compressor will overheat. Since it can be tricky to access the condenser fan, it is best to consult a professional to check if the fan blades are turning properly and determine if the  condenser fan motor is worn out.
Your freezer door gasket is what keeps the warm air of your home locked out and the cool air of your freezer locked in. If the door is not sealing completely shut every time you close it, that cool air will leak out and your freezer’s temperature will rise. To check if your freezer door is sealing properly, place a piece of paper flat against the gasket and close the freezer door. Then, tug at the paper. If there is little to no resistance to pulling the piece of paper free from the door, the seals are likely loose and need to be replaced. Be sure to test multiple areas along the seal. In newer freezer models, there are no tools necessary to replace the gasket. Typically these freezers have wrap around gaskets or gaskets that can simply be pushed into place. If your freezer is an older model, the gasket is probably attached with screws and replacing it requires a few extra steps.
If you’ve checked all the other components of your freezer for malfunctions and you still haven’t found the root of the problem, the source may be the compressor. The easiest way to diagnose a problem with your freezer’s compressor is by listening for its routine humming sound. Pay attention to your freezer for at least 30 minutes. If the humming sound doesn’t kick in within that time, the compressor may not be working correctly. Schedule a visit with a technician for more help.
Whether it’s your refrigerator freezer combination or a deep freezer not getting cold enough, the following information may help you figure out the source of the problem and possible ways to address it.
There can be various reasons why your freezer and refrigerator stopped cooling. Be sure to check the electrical outlet, thermostat and airflow around vents. Cooling problems can also be caused by dust on condenser coils, faulty gaskets, clearance space around the refrigerator, a broken or stuck condenser fan or a faulty circuit board.
Dirty condenser coils can reduce your freezer’s cooling capacity and may be the reason why your refrigerator is working but your freezer is struggling. You can vacuum the coils with a crevice attachment to help remove dust and clean condenser coils. 
If your freezer is overcrowded with frozen food, it may be blocking the evaporator fan and hindering the circulation of proper airflow. This can cause fluctuations in freezer temperature. Clear your freezer shelves and reorganize items to see if this resolves the issue. 
For a freezer that seems to be freezing meat and other items but not ice cream, the temperature may be too warm. Your thermostat should be set at 0ºF (-18ºC) or within -1ºF- 1ºF. If you have a deep freezer in a garage, check that it’s a garage ready freezer so it can better withstand fluctuations in outdoor temps.
If your freezer stops working properly and is consistently too warm or too cold, it’s probably an issue that needs to be investigated. Although some freezer problems can be quickly diagnosed and resolved, they may also be an indicator that your appliance needs to be replaced. Refrigerators and freezers can last anywhere between 10 to 15 years, and problems found at the end of your appliance's lifespan may be a sign that it is time to make an upgrade. Maytag brand offers a variety o of refrigerators and freezers to help you make the best choice for your household needs.
You can trust Maytag® refrigerators to deliver dependable performance day after day. Shop select models with features like PowerCold® and a soft freeze bin, so your favorite ice cream stays at the perfect, scoopable temperature. Whether you’re looking for a refrigerator freezer combination or a deep freezer, Maytag brand can help you provide the ideal storage environment to preserve leftovers, frozen meals, snacks and desserts. Learn more about deep freezer sizes that can be the right fit for your home. 



















 Model:  



Color:  



Quantity:  



Subscribe to Receive  
:
                            




Total Price:  


†Offer valid 4/27/23 - 5/31/23. Get $200 instant rebate off at checkout with the purchase of three major appliances. Only valid for purchases made at Costco, Best Buy, The Home Depot, and Maytag.com. Mail in rebate redeemed in the form of a virtual or physical prepaid card. Excludes Maytag® irons, vacuums, central heating & cooling and water treatment. Limit 1 rebate per house-hold. Limit 1 model per appliance type. See form or check with your participating retailer for details. ®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved.
Offer valid 4/27/23-5/31/23. Get $200 instant rebate off at checkout with the purchase of three major appliances. Excludes Maytag® irons, vacuums, central heating & cooling and water treatment. Limit 1 rebate per house-hold. Limit 1 model per appliance type. See form or check with your participating retailer for details. Only valid for purchases made at Costco, Best Buy, The Home Depot, and Maytag.com. ®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved.

                     Connect with Us
                  
®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area

®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area
Hang in there, we are looking for alternate products just for you.
Have You Considered These?
We use your information in accordance with our privacy policy.

Unlock Prices
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on maytag.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
 when you use code SAVETEN24 on your first purchase with a new account
Buy More, Save More
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on maytag.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. While supplies last.

Discount applied in cart.
Flash Sale
Ends 6/19/24
Ends June 19, 2024 10:00 AM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off sale and regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on www.maytag.com . Offer subject to change. No cash value. While supplies last.
on select appliances when you use promo code ENJOY10
Limited time offer
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery and install services vary by location- see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Only valid on new orders on maytag.com . Major appliances limited to washers and dryers.
Use promo code LAUNDRYINSTALL
ACCOUNT HOLDER EXCLUSIVES
on select appliances.
Available now! 
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 10:00AM EST. Excludes ground-shipped products. Discount taken off regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on maytag.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, microwaves, wall ovens, ranges, cooktops, hoods, and dishwashers. While supplies last.
The best deals on select closeout appliances.

Get a fast repair without a plan— it’s simple at any uBreakiFix® store.
Get quality repairs and services, free diagnostics, and expert help right in your neighborhood.
Get a quality repair at one of our 700+ stores nationwide.
Book a repair time that works for you and your schedule.
Explore our wide range of repair services to fix your broken tech.
Fix your broken or cracked screen for a low price.
Get a computer tune-up today for as low as $79.
Purchase screen protectors, cases, and gear for your tech.
For over 20 years, we've protected the devices you rely on most.
Get protection support for the machines you count on most for just $34.99/mo plus tax with Asurion Appliance+™.
You can cover thousands of devices in your home—even future purchases—under a single plan.
It’s one of the most important devices you own, and if it breaks, we’ve got your back.
Our experts help you get the most out of your plan with premium expert tech support.
We’re here for for all of your tech needs.
Get access to an app that has all your benefits in one place.
Tips, tricks, and how-to’s to keep you connected.
Get activated and navigate data transfer or SIM issues.
Troubleshoot Wi-Fi and router problems with an expert.
Learn how to get more out of every charge.
April 17th, 2024
It may seem odd, but there is such a thing as a freezer that's too cold. And if yours isn't the right temperature, it won't work properly.
At Asurion, we don't just fix appliances, we fix the frustration you feel when yours aren't functioning—whether it's a dryer that's not spinning or a dishwasher that's not dispensing soap. We'll walk you through what to do if your freezer is too cold.
If ice is building up inside your freezer or you notice your food is freezer-burned, your freezer may be running too cold.
Here's how to check and adjust the temperature to keep your frozen food in good condition.
If you suspect your freezer is too cold, check the temperature. Most newer freezers have a built-in thermometer, or you can buy one and place it in the freezer.
The ideal temperature for your freezer is 0 degrees Fahrenheit, but -10 to -20 degrees Fahrenheit should be fine.
If the temperature is any lower, or if it's a little low and you want to get it just right, try moving the gauge to 0 degrees and check again in 24 hours after it has had time to adjust.
No one wants to deal with a broken appliance
With Asurion Appliance+, you don’t have to. Our hassle-free plans cover all your eligible home appliances—no matter the brand or where you bought them.
Learn more
The air damper, also called the freezer control on some models, is the part of your appliance that controls cold air moving from the freezer to the fridge. If it's broken, your fridge may be too warm, and too much cold air may be collecting in the freezer. To see if this is the problem, try the following steps:
Still worried that your freezer is getting too cold? The temperature sensor, also called a thermistor, tracks the temperature in both your freezer and fridge, and it adjusts the speed and movement of the fans, damper, and compressor. If it's not working correctly, the sensor may need to be reset. Here's what to do:
What about your fridge? Are your veggies freezing in the crisper, or are your beverages turning to ice on the shelves? Check out our guide to how to fix a refrigerator that's too cold.
When your appliances don't work, we do. With Asurion Appliance+®, get hassle-free coverage for your current appliances and future purchases—no matter the brand or where you bought them—plus 24/7 troubleshooting support. Learn more about Asurion Appliance+™ coverage and how you can get total peace of mind protection.
*The Asurion® trademarks and logos are the property of Asurion, LLC. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Asurion is not affiliated with, sponsored by, or endorsed by any of the respective owners of the other trademarks appearing herein.*
We believe your tech should work
With Asurion, enjoy peace of mind knowing your tech is protected with fast repairs and expert support—from your phone to your fridge.
Related Articles
Freezer
How long do freezers last?
Appliance
How long do ovens last?
Phone
Phone hacked? Here's what to do: step-by-step guide
Follow Us
Get the latest news and tech how-to's.
We believe your tech should work
With Asurion, enjoy peace of mind knowing your tech is protected with fast repairs and expert support—from your phone to your fridge.
Related Articles 
Freezer
How long do freezers last?
Appliance
How long do ovens last?
Phone
Phone hacked? Here's what to do: step-by-step guide
Follow Us
Get the latest news and tech how-to's.
Appliances aren't cheap
Neither are their repairs. But Asurion Appliance+ can save you money every month and provide some peace of mind.
You may also be interested in:
3 appliance filters you should be cleaning regularly
Keep your appliances in top shape with these simple filter cleaning tips—your future self will thank you for it.
How to connect your laptop to your smart TV
Our experts share steps for how to mirror your laptop computer to your TV, using HDMI and wireless, for your Windows PC, MacBook and Chromebook.
Yes, you can wash your hats in the dishwasher—here’s how
Discover the safe and effective way to wash your hats in the dishwasher with our comprehensive guide, ensuring they maintain their shape and color.


Refrigerators produced by Samsung.

Rajdeep Singh

@rajalot


Rep: 1


                                 2                              


               Posted: Dec 14, 2017 

Hey Team,
I have a Samsung Side by Side Fridge & Freezer (Model : SRS585HDIS)
About a week ago, I noticed that there was no ice being produced, and I thought it was due to the hot weather we've had of late, so I decreased the temperature of the Freezer to no avail.
It seems like the ice is not being produced because the freezer is not cold enough to freeze the ice. It seems like the freezer temperature is not getting colder, and I've tried a couple of things including resetting (on/off) & power freeze.
On further inspection, it seems like the bottom of the freezer is very cold (as it should be), but the top is significantly warmer - it's also where the Ice maker is, hence the water is not freezing.
From my research, I've learnt that the fridge side is cooled by air from the freezer side - and the fridge is at the right temperature, no issues at all.
Does that mean the circulation fan in the freezer is not working/might be frozen.
How can I test it or take it apart to check?
Or are there any steps I should take like defrosting the freezer to get the fan running again?
Any help will be appreciated :)
Hey,
Appreciate the reply and sorry for the late reply!
When the fridge and freezer doors are closed, I can hear a whizzing noise (most likely the fan), and I'm pretty sure it's a noise I haven't hear before.
Also, the freezer cools but the cold air does not circulate - the bottom end of the freezer is working as expected and freezes items & ice cubes, but the top end is warm and not cold at all.
It seems like it's the circulation fan or something similar?
Any way to confirm/test that it's the fan?
Cheers!
Hey Guys,
So I've finally got around to doing a bit of investigating.
It seems like the fan is running? (See link for photos).
But I'm definitely sure it has to do with the circulation inside the freezer, as the fridge has been working as per normal, whilst the freezer still hovers around the 15 degree mark and does not freeze anything.
From my research, the fan is responsible for circulating the air?
Could the fan not be running at the correct speed?
Link : https://imgur.com/a/dz5z2
(Last photo is a photo of the fan)
Is this a good question?
Could your fridge have accidentally been set to demo mode?

Jun 10, 2018 by 
carla allen 




jayeff

@jayeff


Rep: 457.8k


                                 11                              


                                 370                              


                                 1.4k                              


               Posted: Dec 23, 2017 

Hi @rajalot ,
Here is a link to the spare parts for your model fridge.
It shows that there are 3 fans for your fridge. One in each cabinet (fridge and freezer), to circulate the air and one outside the cabinets to cool the compressor and condenser coils.
I'd check the fan in the freezer cabinet to ensure that it is not iced up and that it is  operating OK.
The reason why the freezer is cold at the bottom is that cold air falls down. (It is heavier than warm air). So while the evaporator is very cold (freezing cold in fact) there is no air being blown across it to cool the entire cabinet only the air surrounding the evaporator area.
Here is a link to the parts for the freezer section (or click on the exploded view1 pdf link in the page from the link above.
Here is a link to the freezer fan -Item 10-2 part #1692719 and case motor Item 10-4 part #1692689 both found on p.2 of the parts list.
Hopefully this is of some help.
Hi @rajalot ,
You have shown pictures of the compressor fan. This cools the condenser coils which are "hot" from the heat extracted from the fridge. (you could vacuum away all the dust, the cooling coils will appreciate it!)
The evaporator fan is inside the freezer cabinet  behind a panel. This fan drags air over the "freezing cold" evaporator unit causing cold air to circulate throughout the freezer. Be careful, your fingers can literally stick to the evaporator unit if you touch it. It is freezing cold (unless the fridge is in the defrost cycle when it warms up (because no refrigerant is passing through it) to allow the ice build up to melt away -i.e. defrost)
You need to remove the back panel (from the inside of the cabinet) and check out the fan there.
As I said above check out "exploded view 1" in the link to see how the evaporator fan sits behind the panel in the freezer cabinet.
Was this answer helpful?
1 Comment:
@jayeff
You're a bloody legend! Your replies are easy to follow and your comments explain everything so well.
Just thought I'd let you know - shall follow up the steps above and report back soon :)

Feb 6, 2018 by 
Rajdeep Singh 




Augustine

@salmonjapan


Rep: 16.4k


                                 11                              


                                 17                              


                                 19                              


               Posted: Dec 14, 2017 

Hi @rajalot
Check some things, is the compressor running?
e.g. like hearing motor / fan running ?
check for any possible clogs also.
Was this answer helpful?
1 Comment:
Hey,
Appreciate the reply and sorry for the late reply!
When the fridge and freezer doors are closed, I can hear a whizzing noise (most likely the fan), and I'm pretty sure it's a noise I haven't hear before.
Also, the freezer cools but the cold air does not circulate - the bottom end of the freezer is working as expected and freezes items & ice cubes, but the top end is warm and not cold at all.
It seems like it's the circulation fan or something similar?
Any way to confirm/test that it's the fan?
Cheers!

Dec 23, 2017 by 
Rajdeep Singh 




jayeff

@jayeff


Rep: 457.8k


                                 11                              


                                 370                              


                                 1.4k                              


               Posted: Mar 21, 2019 

Hi @Rose Swift,
You have not quoted a full model number, so I can't help more fully, but if you can hear a "whirring" sound in the freezer compartment but there is no air movement it may be that the evaporator fan blades have come adrift from the evaporator fan motor shaft, so that the motor turns (and whirs) but not the blade.
Frost build up is normal as warmer air enters the freezer when the door is opened and the moisture in the warmer air ‘freezes” on the colder interior sides of the compartment.
That is why most refrigerators these days have auto defrost . This occurs once every 8-12 hours (depending on maker). The compressor is stopped, the fans are stopped (you don’t want to blow cold air out unnecessarily when the doors are opened) and the evaporator defrost heater is turned on. The auto defrost lasts for about 20-30 minutes and then the compressor and fans start up again to drive temps back to the required settings.
Is there a freezer door switch that you can manually operate simulating that the door is closed to verify that there is no air flow in the freezer? The fan is turned off when a door is opened. Apologies if you have already done this.
Check that the evaporator fan is OK.
If you search online for (insert full model number) parts you should get results for suppliers which show exploded parts diagrams of all the parts so that you can see where the fan is situated behind a panel.
Was this answer helpful?
14 Comments:
Hello. Thank you for the response. It is a GE PROFILE Arctica PSS27SHNABS. There is no air circulation when I manually push the freezer door switch.
The whirring/growling sound (for lack of a better way to describe it) is constant when the doors are closed, stops when doors are opened and will start up upon leaving a door open for a minute or so. The separate fan in the refrigerator’s “custom cool" drawer does power up and blows just fine when that feature is utilized & the condenser fan is also functioning at the rear, underside of the fridge.
I suspected that the evap fan/motor could be the issue. Thank you for the suggestion…It makes sense that it could be just the fan blades vs. the motor.  Accessing the evaporator fan even for visual inspection seems to be a bit more involved on this unit. Doable, but just more of a pain.
Do you happen to have any other suggestions for diagnosing without disassembling?  The fridge does get to 37F but the freezer not below 10F & both lose some temp when the doors are opened & closed. A light frost begins to develop on the interior freezer back panel.
Thanks!!

Mar 22, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 



Hi @ Rose Swift,
Don't know your particular model but the evaporator fan starting up after a while with the door open may be a feature to try and maintain the desired temperature as it will be going up with the door open. A lot of other makes either give an alarm after a few minutes to warn to close the door or don't turn on the fan at all again until the door is closed and hope that the user remembers to close the door.
It may be understandable that the fridge temp is OK given that the freezer is at 10F. Normally the freezer should be at 0F and the damper unit controls the airflow into the fridge from the freezer to get the desired fridge temp. So the freezer being at 10F may still allow the fridge to be at 37F if the doors weren't opened too often. It may mean that the damper stays open for longer than it would if the freezer were at 0F with the fan operating.
As I said earlier a light frost could be because of warmer (humid maybe) air entering when the door is opened. Admittedly without the fan distributing the cold air around the compartment the frost may occur more quickly at the coldest place  which would be the closest point to or on the evaporator unit, (10F is still well below freezing point).
I think that you have already done the diagnosing ;-)
There is no airflow in the freezer with the compressor running and the door(s) closed or simulated closed and you can hear the sound of a motor that stops when the door is opened and starts again when it is closed. Exactly what a evaporator fan is supposed to do.
You may just have to bite the bullet and remove the panel to get a look at the fan.
The parts diagram for your model show that the evaporator fan blade - part #613 - click on Freezer Section Parts diagram is separate to the fan motor so hopefully it may just have come loose from the shaft.
Good luck with the repair.

Mar 22, 2019 by 
jayeff 



Hello, I bit the bullet & disassembled. Unfortunately,  the evaporator fan blade was attached as it should be & did turn freely with a small bit of resistance. The main thing I noticed out of the ordinary upon visual inspection is that  screws/ brackets  611 and 612, which hold the evap fan motor,  are EXTREMELY rusted. As is the ground wire sandwiched between them.
Soaking with some WD40 currently, as it is impossible to even get the screws to budge should I need to troubleshoot further. What should I check from here? & would the rust be a potential factor?
Update:
Just finally got the rusted brackets unscrewed.. I had read about the grommets being a potential factor, as well. They look to be ok on visual inspection. How would I know if they too, are an issue?
Since I “hear" a possible fan motor sound when the doors are closed…does that mean a new motor would likely not be necessary or help?
Not sure how to move forward from here.
Thanks again!!

Mar 25, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 



Hi @ Rose Swift,
With the compressor running, did you actually see the fan turning by holding the door switch closed or did you turn it manually just to see if it did?
Strange that there is no airflow felt from the vents when the fan is running then

Mar 25, 2019 by 
jayeff 



Do you mean after disassembling? Much of the interior freezer had to be removed from this model to even get access/visual of the evaporator fan…  Didn't know if it was ok to plug the unit in to see if the fan would run… or if too many materials/integrated electrical components (icemaker, lighting, etc.)  had been removed to do that?
What should I try next?

Mar 25, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 




Show 9 more comments


Richard W

@sundaydriver


Rep: 53


                                 3                              


               Posted: Dec 14, 2017 

Most Domestic refers are single evaporator systems... this means all cooling occurring in the  fresh food compartment occurs because of the heat exchange occurring in the freezer (due to evaporator heat absorption). Your refer use a dual evaporator, single compressor system. each compartment cools individually. through not at the same time. Most Ice maker start their harvest cycle when their mold T-stat reaches approx. 10dgs f. If the refer is in a thermos hold or defrost state the fans will not be operating. Generally the evap and condenser fans operate in series with the compressor, but not always. is the compressor and condenser fans operating.
1st item of business should be is the freezer evap fan operating. most of the Samsung / LG fans are very quite when running.  Some fans turn off when the doors are open... some don't. Open the freezer door and listen, if not hold the door switch (if present, some models use a hidden magnetic reed switch to sense door action) closed and give it 15sec to sense.  Do you hear a whirling rotational noise. If not and or if so... next touch along the back wall of the freezer. Do you feel frosty ice... if so you might have a defrost failure and it may be restricting the evap fan.  (most not the easiest to access or service). Further help would need further answers from you.
Was this answer helpful?
2 Comments:
Hey,
Appreciate the reply and sorry for the late reply!
When the fridge and freezer doors are closed, I can hear a whizzing noise (most likely the fan), and I'm pretty sure it's a noise I haven't hear before.
Also, the freezer cools but the cold air does not circulate - the bottom end of the freezer is working as expected and freezes items & ice cubes, but the top end is warm and not cold at all.
It seems like it's the circulation fan or something similar?
Any way to confirm/test that it's the fan?
Cheers!

Dec 23, 2017 by 
Rajdeep Singh 



Exact same issue as the above with GE side by side Profile  PSS27HNA BS.  Replaced main control board. Freezer still no lower than 10 degrees  a day later after unplugging for 24 hrs. Fridge cools but they both loose temp after opening and closing doors. Hear a constant whirring sound when doors are closed as if a fan... but there is no air moving in the freezer.  Feel a light frost rebuilding on rear freezer panel.

Mar 21, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 



Past 24 Hours: 18
Past 7 Days: 72
Past 30 Days: 394
All Time: 66,963


						Stack Exchange network consists of 183 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.
					

            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
        

            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
            Explore Teams

Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
After throwing a thermometer in my freezer, it is around 15-20 degrees Fahrenheit. Things that have been in there and frozen are staying frozen, but anything new that needs to freeze is not.
For example, 24 hours ago I put some of those "colored ice pops" in there and maybe 3 or 4 froze, the rest are just cold.
It is a Freezer/Refrigerator combo with the freezer on top.
What could be causing this and how would I go about fixing it?
EDIT
It looks like the back panel of my freezer is popping off for some reason. I think that this what causes it to not stay cold. Is it possible to pop it back on?
EDIT TWO
The fridge is still warm, even though it is dialed to the max. The freezer is running heavy and is around 15 degrees.
Freezers aren't really designed to freeze things, they're designed to keep things frozen.  To change one pound of 32°F ice to 31°F ice, requires the removal of .5 BTUs. To change one pound of 32°F water, to 32°F ice, requires 144 BTUs. Therefore, it requires far less energy to keep an item frozen, than it does to freeze the item in the first place.
Almost all sources (including the USDA) agree that a freezer should be kept at 0°F (-18°C), to store frozen foods. Though a temperature of -5 to -10, is recommended to freeze food. 
If the back panel of the freezer is popping off, you might want to investigate what is causing it to pop off. If there is ice forming that is causing the panel to pop off, it could mean that the refrigerant in the system is low, and there may be a leak. This is probably a unlikely scenario, though it is possible. 
The more likely cause, is poor air flow.
If there's not good air flow through the condenser, the heat removed from the refrigerated compartments will not be removed from the refrigerant.  At the same time, if the air flow through the evaporator is poor, heat will not be removed from the refrigerated compartments effectively. Maintaining good air flow within the refrigerated compartments is also important. The cooled air needs to move throughout the compartment, so heat can be taken away.
15-20 degrees isn't cold enough, believe it or not :)  There needs to be a significant temperature difference to rapidly draw the heat out of the items you want to freeze.
For example, current Whirlpool refrigerator/freezer units come preset to 0-degrees (F, not C) for the freezer and 37-degrees (F) for the fridge.  According to this document, the freezer range is from -5 to 5 (F), and the fridge can be set from 33 to 41 (F).
Make it colder, and save your fish :)
If the meat is frozen but not the iceceam then the refrigerant is leaking out of your refrigerator/freezer. I paid $100.00 yesterday to find out mine is going bad and too expensive to bother fixing it. 
I had a self defrosting refrigerator that the line to ice tray under refrigerator was plugged. Ice would melt off coils then puddle in freezer and eventually plug the flow of cool air to refrigerator and freezer didn't cool right either. Ccheck for ice behind the panel being pushed out; get out your hair dryer and pour water down drain line.
Reminder: Answers generated by artificial intelligence tools are not allowed on Home Improvement Stack Exchange. Learn more
Thanks for contributing an answer to Home Improvement Stack Exchange!
But avoid …
To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Required, but never shown
Required, but never shown

                                                By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.

To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.

Site design / logo © 2024 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under CC BY-SA.                    rev 2024.6.14.10983


Table of Contents
Why is my freezer running but not freezing?
Other Common Freezer Problems
Sears Home Services Can Get Your Freezer Back to Working Order
Explore these common freezer problems and their likely causes, providing insight from Sears' expert technicians. From frost build-up to malfunctioning components, understanding these issues can empower you to troubleshoot effectively and potentially restore your freezer's functionality without professional assistance.
KEY TAKEAWAYS
Don’t let your freezer freeze you out. We’ll help identify the likely causes of the most common freezer repairs.
Has your frozen food lost its chill? Is your meat so freezer-burnt it’s entirely white? Is the freezer moaning and groaning like Old Man Winter himself — or worse, not working at all?
When your freezer isn’t freezing, it might not be a catastrophe requiring a repair or all-out replacement. Before calling in the experts for a repair, you can sometimes do a little sleuthing yourself — armed with some inside information from the technicians at Sears.
Here are the most common freezer problems that Sears’ experts see–and the likely culprits behind them.
Ensure there’s sufficient amount of product in the freezer section, but that it’s not jammed-packed. It’s recommended to keep the freezer 70% to 85% full. Too much stuff in there will limit air circulation within the appliance — and too little will cause all the cold air to spill out of the appliance every time it’s opened. Keep things evenly dispersed near the middle of the shelves so as not to block any vents or interfere with proper air circulation.
Frost accumulating inside the freezer compartment can block the vents that carry cold air into the compartment. Most freezers today have auto defrost, so check to see if the door has been left open, or if the door seal is worn. You’ll need to have the seal replaced if it’s damaged or torn. If the seal looks okay, a technician should inspect the freezer to determine the problem. If your freezer doesn’t have auto-defrost, you should manually defrost it following the recommendations in your owner’s manual.
Dirty coils won’t cool down refrigerant before it enters the evaporator, resulting in poor cooling performance. Clean the condenser coils if they’re caked with lint and dust. You may need to have a service technician clean the condenser coils if they’re not easily accessible.
A failed evaporator fan can cause freezer cooling problems because it won’t circulate air through the freezer cabinet. You’ll need to have a service technician replace the evaporator fan if it doesn’t run when activated.
Freezers with condenser coils may also have a condenser fan that pushes air across the condenser coils. The freezer won’t cool well when the condenser fan isn’t running while the evaporator is operating.
The freezer compressor is a pump that moves refrigerant through the sealed system, creating the cold air. If the compressor or the compressor start relay stops working, the freezer won’t freeze. If you listen to the freezer for about 30 minutes but don’t hear the familiar hum when it operations, it’s possible the compressor is the problem. A certified refrigeration technician is required if the compressor fails.
A freezer during normal operation can make a variety of noises from clicking during the ice harvest cycle and sizzling or gurgling during defrost to swishing or whirring sounds from the fan motor.
Diagnosing a noise complete can be very difficult. What sounds like humming on one day might sound like buzzing on another. Loudness is often relative; so what is considered loud at night time might be quiet during the day. And different conditions can cause the freezer to sound different.
The key question to ask yourself when hearing noises is are they any other issues going on with the freezer. If other issues are present, fixing those issues will more than likely also fix the noises.
The most likely reason water is present under the freezer is a frozen-over defrost drain. If the drain is frozen, it should be defrosted and then cleaned out.
If the freezer has a water hookup for an ice maker and/or water dispenser, the leak could be coming from the house water supply, the water line, or the inlet valve. If the water line or inlet valve are faulty, they should be replaced.
If the water is coming from the freezer itself, it may be due to the condensation pan overfilling. Excess frost on the evaporator coil could produce more water than the pan can hold. This problem might be caused by high humidity areas or frequent opening of the freezer door. A missing access cover might also prevent proper air flow and proper evaporation of water from the pan. If the condensation pan is cracked, it should be replaced.
Make sure the appliance has power going to it. Check whether the light inside the refrigerator goes on when you open the door.
If not, plug something like a hairdryer or lamp into the outlet. If that device also doesn’t work, the outlet doesn’t have power going to it. Look for a tripped circuit breaker or tripped GFI outlet. Contact a licensed electrician for more serious electrical problems.
Make sure the appliance has power going to it. Check whether the light inside the refrigerator goes on when you open the door.
If not, plug something like a hairdryer or lamp into the outlet. If that device also doesn’t work, the outlet doesn’t have power going to it. Look for a tripped circuit breaker or tripped GFI outlet. Contact a licensed electrician for more serious electrical problems.
If there’s power going to the outlet, there may be an issue with the main control or user interface boards, or the temperature-monitoring devices such as the sensors, or the thermostat might be bad. Further troubleshooting will be needed to pinpoint and resolve the issue.
If the freezer is freezing but your ice cream seems to soft, check the temperature setting is correct. The recommended setting for a freezer is 0°F (-18°C).
The freezer should be operated in an environment between 55°F (13°C) and 110°F (43°C). If the environment is too cold, the freezer may not get sufficient run time to maintain its temperature. If the temperature is too warm, the appliance will have a hard time getting the interior down to the desired temperature.
Dirty condenser coils or a broken fan motor can also cause insufficient freezing.
Here are some additional explanations about why the freezer temperature is too warm.
While some causes for a freezer troubles are easily corrected, many require more troubleshooting to pinpoint and resolve the issue. There are times when you'll need for calling in the experts. If your freezer isn’t freezing working as it should , schedule a repair with our repair experts today.
For generations, Sears Home Services has been the trusted source for appliance repair. If your refrigerator is not cooling, our refrigerator repair experts are here to help.
Trust our skilled technicians to repair your freezer promptly, regardless of where you bought it.
Learn how to defrost your freezer with expert tips from Sears Home Services.
Find expert tips for finding the cause of excessive frost inside your freezer.
Learn how to drain a GE dishwasher with our step-by-step guide. Keep your dishwasher running smoothly with our expert tips.
If you’ve been hearing loud and/or strange noises coming from your fridge, it may be a sign that your appliance needs some attention or even professional repair.

Providing your address ensures an accurate price
This is the address you entered:


,
                        



Edit Address

By clicking above, you agree that American Home Shield may contact you at the email address provided with information about American Home Shield products.View Privacy Policy
 You are requesting information from AHS regarding our products and services. By clicking the button above, you consent to receive email at the email address you provided, as well as prerecorded messages, autodialed phone calls and text messages at the phone number you provided. You understand that your consent is not a condition of purchase.View Privacy Policy
Freezers are the dependable appliances of the kitchen. You can always trust that your midnight snack craving will be satisfied simply by sleepily stumbling into the kitchen and perusing your faithful freezer. From frozen vegetables, fruit, and meat to ready-to-bake pizzas and delectable ice cream, your freezer is the go-to place for last-minute dining. But what if your freezer is not freezing?
When your freezer stops doing the one thing it is meant to do—freezing—don’t let it get you down. Some simple fixes could help get it back to keeping your groceries icy cold in no time. Review this handy list of freezer issues and quick fixes compiled by American Home Shield®. 
How Does My Freezer Work?
Before delving into troubleshooting issues if your freezer is not working, it’s helpful to understand how a freezer works. 
Most freezers work by using a cooling pipe filled with fast-evaporating liquid coolant. This process involves compressing, condensing, and evaporating the refrigerant gas through the freezer’s mechanical components, which include the 
What Are Some Common Freezer Problems?
A freezer not fulfilling its icy destiny doesn’t necessarily mean disaster. In fact, many issues related to your freezer not working can be remedied through simple troubleshooting. Before getting in a freezer fluster, take a moment to chill out, diagnose, and fix the issue.
A freezer that runs constantly may stem from multiple causes. One cause is that the temperature control thermostat is not working properly, forcing the freezer to run constantly to try and meet the correct temperature. If this is the case, you can try resetting the thermostat or replacing it altogether. 
Another reason is that the evaporator fan motor or condenser fan motor is malfunctioning. If this is the issue, it’s probably time to call a professional. 
Your freezer will likely make a lot of noises as part of its regular running. For example, if it sounds like your freezer is making popcorn, it’s probably because the inside walls are expanding and contracting through temperature fluctuations. Buzzing, humming, gurgling and clicking noises are also quite normal and signify that your fridge and freezer are working. 
However, new or excessively loud sounds might indicate that something is wrong with your freezer. These noises could mean that your condenser coils are dirty, blocking proper airflow. To remedy the situation, you can clean your condenser coils every two to three months using a refrigerator coil brush. 
The noises could also mean that your freezer’s evaporator fan isn’t working correctly; if this is the case, you should repair or replace it soon. If the evaporator fan is damaged or old, you may notice a loud buzzing or clicking noise. Your freezer might also run less cold than usual. 
If your freezer is leaking water, or if you have frost in the freezer, you likely have a clogged or (ironically) frozen defrost drain. You can unclog it by filling a turkey baster with hot water and using it to clear out the drain tube.

                    Thinking about coverage?
                

                    Sounds like a plan. Find the warranty that fits you best.
                
Why Is My Freezer Not Freezing?
A freezer not freezing can make even the most relaxed person feel hot under the collar. A freezer that’s stopped working doesn’t have to mean hundreds of dollars down the drain. Figuring out what causes a freezer to stop freezing is the first step to fixing it—saving your freezer and your budget.
If you find your freezer cold but not freezing, the first thing you should do is test your freezer door. You may have failed to notice that an item is sticking out enough to keep the door ajar, meaning that precious cold air is escaping your freezer. 
Similarly, older or poorly installed freezer door seals might cause your freezer temperature to drop. You can test your freezer door seals by placing a piece of paper or dollar bill between the freezer and door. Then, close the freezer door. If you can pull out the dollar bill, your freezer door sealer needs to be repaired or replaced. 
Another reason your freezer is not working could be poor packing of its contents. Make sure that there is enough space under the evaporator fan, usually in the rear of the freezer, so that the cold air emerging from the fan can reach everywhere in your freezer. 
Dirty condenser coils can reduce your freezer’s overall cooling capacity since dirty coils make the condenser retain heat rather than release it. This causes the compressor to overcompensate. To prevent this from happening, make sure to clean your condenser coils regularly. 
More serious reasons that your freezer is not freezing involve malfunctioning internal components. If your evaporator fan is not working correctly, first unplug your refrigerator and remove and clean the evaporator fan blades. Ice buildup on evaporator fan blades often prevents your freezer from properly circulating air. If you notice a bent fan blade, you will need to replace it. 
If the evaporator fan blades are spinning freely, but the fan won’t run, you may need to replace a defective motor or repair broken wires between the fan motor and thermostat control. 
Finally, a freezer that isn’t freezing might mean that your start relay is not working as it should, meaning that it isn’t giving power to your compressor. You can conduct a physical test on your start relay by unplugging your refrigerator, opening up the compartment at the back of your freezer, unplugging the start relay from the compressor, and then shaking the start relay. If you hear a rattling noise that sounds like dice in a can, your start relay will have to be replaced. If it does not rattle, that might mean that you have a compressor issue, which will require professional repair assistance. 
Tips for Freezer Maintenance
A consistently cold freezer is a happy freezer. In addition to keeping the coolest appliance in the house as cold as possible and properly wrapping food for storage, here are the tried-and-true ways to enjoy uninterrupted coolness.
1. Review the owner’s manual for maintenance instructions. Familiarizing yourself with your freezer now will do wonders to help you keep your cool when it’s time to maintain it or fix it down the road.
2. Periodically check the freezer’s thermostat. For a freezer to perform optimally, its thermostat should be set at zero degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius). If your model doesn’t have a built-in thermostat, use a thermometer to check the temperature.
3. Keep the interior clean. With a damp rag and a bit of dish liquid, you can have your freezer sparkling in no time.
As with anything you depend on every day, the better you treat your freezer, the better it will treat you (and your food) in return.
It’s also a good idea to sign up for a home warranty plan that includes refrigerator warranty coverage. A home warranty from American Home Shield offers coverage for home systems and appliances, including your refrigerator and freezer. To ensure that your budget is protected from issues due to normal wear and tear—like your freezer not freezing—check out our pricing and plans today.
DIY tips are for informational purposes only. Please be sure to take the appropriate safety precautions and ensure your project complies with any applicable federal, state, or local laws and regulations.
AHS assumes no responsibility, and specifically disclaims all liability, for your use of any and all information contained herein.
Have a plan for your home when things don't go according to plan

                 New Jersey Residents: The product being offered is a service contract and is separate and distinct from any product or service warranty which may be provided by the home builder or manufacturer.
            

Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.

Use code "FREEDELIVERY" for all majors appliances $399+ ❖ See Details
❖Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Delivered to a single U.S. address. Excludes ground shipped products. $399 based on sale price of in-home delivery products excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul away. Cannot be combined with other offers. Can be combined with SAVETEN24 and BMSM. Only valid for new orders on http://maytag.com . Major appliances limited to refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, wall ovens, microwaves, dishwashers, hoods, beverage & wine centers, ice makers and compactors.
Providing your exact location will allow us to ensure our products are available in your area.
ZIP Code:
Hello,



                        All Merchandise in Cart:
                    


                        Order Discount:
                    


                        Total: (Before Taxes, Shipping, and Services):
                    

Link your shopping cart across all your devices!
 to your account to save and access your shopping cart on your desktop, tablet, or mobile device.
Be sure to check out our latest offers to start saving!
BEST-RATED WASHING MACHINES FROM MAYTAG®
Find the best washer for your laundry needs.
EXPLORE DIFFERENT TYPES OF COOKTOPS AND THEIR BENEFITS
Explore different types of cooktops and learn more about their benefits.
BEST MAYTAG® DRYER FOR YOU
Trying to find the best clothes dryer for your home? Let us help.
HOW TO REMOVE GREASE STAINS FROM CLOTHES
Our guide to grease stains will help you remove them from common fabrics.
Additional contact info and hours of operation.

*
      Required Information
    

Forgot your Password?


or

Complete Your Account
Maytag will be using the following information we gathered from the external platform you selected to create your account.
block.addtocart.message

                        Session Time Out
                    

                            Your session is about to expire.
                        

                        Session Timed Out
                    

                            Your session has expired.
                        
Is your freezer not cold enough? Some freezer issues can be resolved by rearranging the frozen items, while other causes may require a closer look.
If your freezer struggles to stay cold for too long, you run the risk of not only spoiling food but also possibly reducing the lifespan of the appliance. When something goes wrong with your freezer’s cooling system, the problem should be fixed right away. Some freezer problems can be resolved on your own or with the help of a professional while others can signal that it’s time for an appliance upgrade. Before you schedule a service call, learn how to troubleshoot these common causes that keep your freezer from freezing.
Whether you have a chest or upright freezer, or refrigerator freezer combination, there may be a few reasons why your freezer is cold but not freezing. A freezer may not be cold enough due to user error, such as packing in too much food or not properly closing the door. However, sometimes parts to your freezer wear out over time and may affect your appliance’s freezing capabilities. Some parts are simple to install as DIY fixes, but others need professional help.
Always check your freezer’s Use and Care Guide for model-specific troubleshooting instructions.
The following potential causes may help you determine why your freezer isn’t freezing:
If your freezer is not working, the first thing to check is if the shelves are packed too tightly. Overstuffed freezers can cause an airflow blockage, especially when the evaporator fan is blocked. If your freezer is not cold enough, try clearing off your freezer shelves. By clearing and reorganizing food, and getting rid of items possibly forgotten in the back of the freezer, you can make sure the evaporator fan has proper airflow. If you find your freezer is consistently overpacked, you may benefit from a Maytag® Deep Freezer for a surplus of frozen foods and bulky items.
Excess frost buildup on the walls of your freezer can congest the vents and coils that keep your freezer functioning. If it’s not working, you can defrost your freezer to melt buildup to help your freezer maintain its proper temperature. Keep in mind that most modern freezers have auto defrost, so if you have frost buildup, it may indicate a bigger issue. You might need to consult a service professional for further evaluation.
If you have a refrigerator freezer combination that isn’t freezing, dirty condenser coils may be the cause. When coils aren’t maintained properly, it can reduce the cooling capacity of your freezer. To clean the condenser coils, you can vacuum the coils with a crevice attachment. 
 
If you have an upright or chest freezer, the coils are in the walls of the freezer and are likely not the cause of your appliance’s malfunction. Be sure to check your Use and Care Guide for model-specific maintenance recommendations.
Your freezer’s start relay provides power to the compressor. If the relay malfunctions, the compressor can’t run and your freezer will begin to thaw. Listen for the routine humming of the compressor as it starts the cooling process. If you don’t hear the humming kick-start within 30 minutes, there may be an issue with the start relay. Check your product manual for a proper diagnosis or schedule a service technician. 
Your freezer’s evaporator fan motor keeps cold air circulating throughout your appliance. A malfunction of this motor stops your freezer’s cooling function. Depending on the model of your freezer, the evaporator fan motor shuts off when the door is open. To check the function of the motor, open your freezer door and manually hold down the freezer door switch. If the motor does not begin to run, it may need to be replaced by a professional.
If your chest freezer is not freezing, you may want to inspect its thermostat. Typically, most modern refrigerators and freezers have an electronic control and use temperature sensing devices to regulate the temperature. Your chest freezer’s thermostat is the control hub of the inner mechanisms necessary to regulate your appliance’s temperature. It controls the compressor, the evaporator fan motor and the condenser fan motor. When there’s a problem with a chest freezer’s thermostat, those parts are unable to do their job in keeping the freezer cold. To determine if the thermostat is the cause of a freezer not getting cold enough, change the thermostat from the lowest to the highest setting and listen for a click. If you don’t hear a click, then it likely needs to be replaced by a professional.
If your freezer is not cold, the problem may be caused by a broken condenser fan motor. The condenser fan draws cool air through the condenser and over your freezer’s coils. If this fan is broken, your freezer’s inner temperature will rise, and the compressor will overheat. Since it can be tricky to access the condenser fan, it is best to consult a professional to check if the fan blades are turning properly and determine if the  condenser fan motor is worn out.
Your freezer door gasket is what keeps the warm air of your home locked out and the cool air of your freezer locked in. If the door is not sealing completely shut every time you close it, that cool air will leak out and your freezer’s temperature will rise. To check if your freezer door is sealing properly, place a piece of paper flat against the gasket and close the freezer door. Then, tug at the paper. If there is little to no resistance to pulling the piece of paper free from the door, the seals are likely loose and need to be replaced. Be sure to test multiple areas along the seal. In newer freezer models, there are no tools necessary to replace the gasket. Typically these freezers have wrap around gaskets or gaskets that can simply be pushed into place. If your freezer is an older model, the gasket is probably attached with screws and replacing it requires a few extra steps.
If you’ve checked all the other components of your freezer for malfunctions and you still haven’t found the root of the problem, the source may be the compressor. The easiest way to diagnose a problem with your freezer’s compressor is by listening for its routine humming sound. Pay attention to your freezer for at least 30 minutes. If the humming sound doesn’t kick in within that time, the compressor may not be working correctly. Schedule a visit with a technician for more help.
Whether it’s your refrigerator freezer combination or a deep freezer not getting cold enough, the following information may help you figure out the source of the problem and possible ways to address it.
There can be various reasons why your freezer and refrigerator stopped cooling. Be sure to check the electrical outlet, thermostat and airflow around vents. Cooling problems can also be caused by dust on condenser coils, faulty gaskets, clearance space around the refrigerator, a broken or stuck condenser fan or a faulty circuit board.
Dirty condenser coils can reduce your freezer’s cooling capacity and may be the reason why your refrigerator is working but your freezer is struggling. You can vacuum the coils with a crevice attachment to help remove dust and clean condenser coils. 
If your freezer is overcrowded with frozen food, it may be blocking the evaporator fan and hindering the circulation of proper airflow. This can cause fluctuations in freezer temperature. Clear your freezer shelves and reorganize items to see if this resolves the issue. 
For a freezer that seems to be freezing meat and other items but not ice cream, the temperature may be too warm. Your thermostat should be set at 0ºF (-18ºC) or within -1ºF- 1ºF. If you have a deep freezer in a garage, check that it’s a garage ready freezer so it can better withstand fluctuations in outdoor temps.
If your freezer stops working properly and is consistently too warm or too cold, it’s probably an issue that needs to be investigated. Although some freezer problems can be quickly diagnosed and resolved, they may also be an indicator that your appliance needs to be replaced. Refrigerators and freezers can last anywhere between 10 to 15 years, and problems found at the end of your appliance's lifespan may be a sign that it is time to make an upgrade. Maytag brand offers a variety o of refrigerators and freezers to help you make the best choice for your household needs.
You can trust Maytag® refrigerators to deliver dependable performance day after day. Shop select models with features like PowerCold® and a soft freeze bin, so your favorite ice cream stays at the perfect, scoopable temperature. Whether you’re looking for a refrigerator freezer combination or a deep freezer, Maytag brand can help you provide the ideal storage environment to preserve leftovers, frozen meals, snacks and desserts. Learn more about deep freezer sizes that can be the right fit for your home. 



















 Model:  



Color:  



Quantity:  



Subscribe to Receive  
:
                            




Total Price:  


†Offer valid 4/27/23 - 5/31/23. Get $200 instant rebate off at checkout with the purchase of three major appliances. Only valid for purchases made at Costco, Best Buy, The Home Depot, and Maytag.com. Mail in rebate redeemed in the form of a virtual or physical prepaid card. Excludes Maytag® irons, vacuums, central heating & cooling and water treatment. Limit 1 rebate per house-hold. Limit 1 model per appliance type. See form or check with your participating retailer for details. ®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved.
Offer valid 4/27/23-5/31/23. Get $200 instant rebate off at checkout with the purchase of three major appliances. Excludes Maytag® irons, vacuums, central heating & cooling and water treatment. Limit 1 rebate per house-hold. Limit 1 model per appliance type. See form or check with your participating retailer for details. Only valid for purchases made at Costco, Best Buy, The Home Depot, and Maytag.com. ®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved.

                     Connect with Us
                  
®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area

®/™ © 2023 Maytag. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area
Hang in there, we are looking for alternate products just for you.
Have You Considered These?
We use your information in accordance with our privacy policy.

Unlock Prices
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on maytag.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
 when you use code SAVETEN24 on your first purchase with a new account
Buy More, Save More
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on maytag.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. While supplies last.

Discount applied in cart.
Flash Sale
Ends 6/19/24
Ends June 19, 2024 10:00 AM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off sale and regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on www.maytag.com . Offer subject to change. No cash value. While supplies last.
on select appliances when you use promo code ENJOY10
Limited time offer
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery and install services vary by location- see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Only valid on new orders on maytag.com . Major appliances limited to washers and dryers.
Use promo code LAUNDRYINSTALL
ACCOUNT HOLDER EXCLUSIVES
on select appliances.
Available now! 
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 10:00AM EST. Excludes ground-shipped products. Discount taken off regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on maytag.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, microwaves, wall ovens, ranges, cooktops, hoods, and dishwashers. While supplies last.
The best deals on select closeout appliances.


              r/fixit has temporarily gone dark to protest the proposed changes to Reddit's API access policies.

**Be Excellent To Each Other.**
            

Create a new account & save 10% using code SAVETEN24❖ See Details
❖Ends July 10, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
Providing your exact location will allow us to ensure our products are available in your area.
ZIP Code:
Hello,



                        All Merchandise in Cart:
                    


                        Order Discount:
                    


                        Total: (Before Taxes, Shipping, and Services):
                    

Link your shopping cart across all your devices!
 to your account to save and access your shopping cart on your desktop, tablet, or mobile device.
Be sure to check out our latest offers to start saving!

                            Cooktops
                        

                            Dishwashers
                        

                            Microwaves
                        

                            Refrigeration 
                        

                            Ranges
                        

                            Smart Appliances
                        

                            Range Hoods
                        

                            Wall Ovens
                        

                            Washers
                        

                            Dryers
                        

                            Laundry Sets
                        

                            Commercial Laundry
                        

                            Smart Appliances
                        

                            Home Solutions
                        

                            Water Filters
                        

                            Appliance Cleaners
                        

                            Kitchen Parts & Accessories
                        

                            Laundry Parts & Accessories
                        

                            Appliance Sales
                        

                            Whirlpool® Outlet
                        

                            Discount Programs
                        

                            Financing
                        

                            Product Support
                        

                            Repair or Replace
                        
Additional contact info and hours of operation.

*
      Required Information
    

Forgot your Password?


or

Complete Your Account
Whirlpool will be using the following information we gathered from the external platform you selected to create your account.
block.addtocart.message

                        Session Time Out
                    

                            Your session is about to expire.
                        

                        Session Timed Out
                    

                            Your session has expired.
                        
When it comes to food storage, it’s essential to maintain optimal freezer temperatures. Storing food in a broken freezer may put your family at risk, but it can also reduce the lifespan of your appliance as it struggles to maintain optimal temperatures.
The optimal temperature for freezer food storage is 0° F or below. If the temperature is any higher, then you may be experiencing freezer problems. Get ideas and tips for how to fix a freezer with this step-by-step guide.
You may be able to complete simple freeze repairs like lightbulb changes, gasket cleaning and door blockages by consulting the troubleshooting section of your owner's manual. To find product-specific information for your Whirlpool® freezer, visit the Whirlpool Manuals & Literatures page. Professional service is strongly recommended for all other freezer repairs.
For professional support for your Whirlpool® refrigerator or freezer, visit the Whirlpool Customer Care page. You’ll be able to access appliance-specific resources, order replacement parts and schedule service appointments. You can also visit the Whirlpool YouTube channel for more helpful information. 
Try these simple fixes first when it comes to repairing your freezer. These common troubleshooting issues may help you avoid a service call. Get a better understanding of how to fix a freezer with these tips and ideas. For tips on solving other freezer problems, check out our freezer troubleshooting guide.
Cleaning agent and cleaning cloths
Vacuum with crevice attachment
Ice-pick or scraper 
To be sure your appliance is set to the appropriate temperature, check your appliance’s control settings. However, if your freezer is cold but not freezing, it may be time to inspect the thermostat. Try changing the thermostat from the lowest setting to the highest setting. If you don’t hear a click sound, then a professional replacement is recommended.
Some freezer problems can be solved by clearing out the freezer’s shelves. Overpacking can result in a covered evaporator fan and airflow blockage, so avoid overcrowding your freezer and store only as much food as the dimensions of your appliance will allow. Take the opportunity to wipe down exposed areas to remove lingering dirt, dust or food particles.
If you’re experiencing freezing issues with your combination refrigerator-freezer, check the state of your condenser coils, which are usually accessible from the back or bottom of the fridge. When dirt builds up on the condenser coils, the cooling capacity of the appliance is weakened. You can use a vacuum with a crevice attachment to remove dust and keep your condenser coils clean.
 
Be sure to check your Use and Care Guide for model-specific maintenance recommendations.
 
Break down built-up ice to release congestion and allow your freezer to reach and maintain an acceptable temperature for proper food storage. When frost layers onto the interior walls of the freezer, the freezer must work harder to maintain its temperature. However, note that because most modern freezers have auto-defrost functionalities, a freezer that is accumulating ice too quickly should be evaluated by a professional.
 
In addition to knowing how to properly defrost a freezer, there are several ways to help your kitchen appliances hold their temperatures more effectively:
Keep fridge and freezer components clean: Be sure to regularly check condenser coils for dirt build-up.
Ensure airways are open: All air vents and fans should be kept clear to ensure optimal airflow and temperature regulation.
Shop the latest deals on select Whirlpool major appliances   Shop Now
Are you looking for a refrigerator or freezer to help you store your food and bring culinary creations to life? Whirlpool® refrigerators and freezers provide fresh and frozen food storage that works for your busy kitchen. Discover the appliance that’s right for you.















Ready for more tips, home hacks and appliance guides?

 Model:  



Color:  



Quantity:  



Subscribe to Receive  
:
                            




Total Price:  



                     Connect with Us
                  
 
®/™ © 2023 Whirlpool. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area

 
®/™ © 2023 Whirlpool. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area
Hang in there, we are looking for alternate products just for you.
Have You Considered These?
We use your information in accordance with our privacy policy.

Unlock prices
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
 when you use code SAVETEN24 on your first purchase with a new account
Buy more, save more
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. While supplies last.

Discount applied in cart
Flash sale
Ends 6/19/24
Ends June 19, 2024 10:00 AM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off sale and regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on www.whirlpool.com . Offer subject to change. No cash value. While supplies last.
on select appliances when you use promo code ENJOY10
Limited-time offer
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery and install services vary by location- see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Only valid on new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers and dryers.
Use promo code LAUNDRYINSTALL
Available now!
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 10:00AM EST. Excludes ground-shipped products. Discount taken off regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, microwaves, wall ovens, ranges, cooktops, hoods, and dishwashers. While supplies last.
Discover the best deals on select closeout appliances

Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery, haul-away and install services vary by location - see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Dollar threshold based on sale price of in-home delivery products excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid on new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. Cannot be combined with Professional discounts. 
Discount applied in cart
Account Holder Exclusives
On Select Appliances

Get a fast repair without a plan— it’s simple at any uBreakiFix® store.
Get quality repairs and services, free diagnostics, and expert help right in your neighborhood.
Get a quality repair at one of our 700+ stores nationwide.
Book a repair time that works for you and your schedule.
Explore our wide range of repair services to fix your broken tech.
Fix your broken or cracked screen for a low price.
Get a computer tune-up today for as low as $79.
Purchase screen protectors, cases, and gear for your tech.
For over 20 years, we've protected the devices you rely on most.
Get protection support for the machines you count on most for just $34.99/mo plus tax with Asurion Appliance+™.
You can cover thousands of devices in your home—even future purchases—under a single plan.
It’s one of the most important devices you own, and if it breaks, we’ve got your back.
Our experts help you get the most out of your plan with premium expert tech support.
We’re here for for all of your tech needs.
Get access to an app that has all your benefits in one place.
Tips, tricks, and how-to’s to keep you connected.
Get activated and navigate data transfer or SIM issues.
Troubleshoot Wi-Fi and router problems with an expert.
Learn how to get more out of every charge.
April 17th, 2024
It may seem odd, but there is such a thing as a freezer that's too cold. And if yours isn't the right temperature, it won't work properly.
At Asurion, we don't just fix appliances, we fix the frustration you feel when yours aren't functioning—whether it's a dryer that's not spinning or a dishwasher that's not dispensing soap. We'll walk you through what to do if your freezer is too cold.
If ice is building up inside your freezer or you notice your food is freezer-burned, your freezer may be running too cold.
Here's how to check and adjust the temperature to keep your frozen food in good condition.
If you suspect your freezer is too cold, check the temperature. Most newer freezers have a built-in thermometer, or you can buy one and place it in the freezer.
The ideal temperature for your freezer is 0 degrees Fahrenheit, but -10 to -20 degrees Fahrenheit should be fine.
If the temperature is any lower, or if it's a little low and you want to get it just right, try moving the gauge to 0 degrees and check again in 24 hours after it has had time to adjust.
No one wants to deal with a broken appliance
With Asurion Appliance+, you don’t have to. Our hassle-free plans cover all your eligible home appliances—no matter the brand or where you bought them.
Learn more
The air damper, also called the freezer control on some models, is the part of your appliance that controls cold air moving from the freezer to the fridge. If it's broken, your fridge may be too warm, and too much cold air may be collecting in the freezer. To see if this is the problem, try the following steps:
Still worried that your freezer is getting too cold? The temperature sensor, also called a thermistor, tracks the temperature in both your freezer and fridge, and it adjusts the speed and movement of the fans, damper, and compressor. If it's not working correctly, the sensor may need to be reset. Here's what to do:
What about your fridge? Are your veggies freezing in the crisper, or are your beverages turning to ice on the shelves? Check out our guide to how to fix a refrigerator that's too cold.
When your appliances don't work, we do. With Asurion Appliance+®, get hassle-free coverage for your current appliances and future purchases—no matter the brand or where you bought them—plus 24/7 troubleshooting support. Learn more about Asurion Appliance+™ coverage and how you can get total peace of mind protection.
*The Asurion® trademarks and logos are the property of Asurion, LLC. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Asurion is not affiliated with, sponsored by, or endorsed by any of the respective owners of the other trademarks appearing herein.*
We believe your tech should work
With Asurion, enjoy peace of mind knowing your tech is protected with fast repairs and expert support—from your phone to your fridge.
Related Articles
Freezer
How long do freezers last?
Appliance
How long do ovens last?
Phone
Phone hacked? Here's what to do: step-by-step guide
Follow Us
Get the latest news and tech how-to's.
We believe your tech should work
With Asurion, enjoy peace of mind knowing your tech is protected with fast repairs and expert support—from your phone to your fridge.
Related Articles 
Freezer
How long do freezers last?
Appliance
How long do ovens last?
Phone
Phone hacked? Here's what to do: step-by-step guide
Follow Us
Get the latest news and tech how-to's.
Appliances aren't cheap
Neither are their repairs. But Asurion Appliance+ can save you money every month and provide some peace of mind.
You may also be interested in:
3 appliance filters you should be cleaning regularly
Keep your appliances in top shape with these simple filter cleaning tips—your future self will thank you for it.
How to connect your laptop to your smart TV
Our experts share steps for how to mirror your laptop computer to your TV, using HDMI and wireless, for your Windows PC, MacBook and Chromebook.
Yes, you can wash your hats in the dishwasher—here’s how
Discover the safe and effective way to wash your hats in the dishwasher with our comprehensive guide, ensuring they maintain their shape and color.


Refrigerators produced by Samsung.

Rajdeep Singh

@rajalot


Rep: 1


                                 2                              


               Posted: Dec 14, 2017 

Hey Team,
I have a Samsung Side by Side Fridge & Freezer (Model : SRS585HDIS)
About a week ago, I noticed that there was no ice being produced, and I thought it was due to the hot weather we've had of late, so I decreased the temperature of the Freezer to no avail.
It seems like the ice is not being produced because the freezer is not cold enough to freeze the ice. It seems like the freezer temperature is not getting colder, and I've tried a couple of things including resetting (on/off) & power freeze.
On further inspection, it seems like the bottom of the freezer is very cold (as it should be), but the top is significantly warmer - it's also where the Ice maker is, hence the water is not freezing.
From my research, I've learnt that the fridge side is cooled by air from the freezer side - and the fridge is at the right temperature, no issues at all.
Does that mean the circulation fan in the freezer is not working/might be frozen.
How can I test it or take it apart to check?
Or are there any steps I should take like defrosting the freezer to get the fan running again?
Any help will be appreciated :)
Hey,
Appreciate the reply and sorry for the late reply!
When the fridge and freezer doors are closed, I can hear a whizzing noise (most likely the fan), and I'm pretty sure it's a noise I haven't hear before.
Also, the freezer cools but the cold air does not circulate - the bottom end of the freezer is working as expected and freezes items & ice cubes, but the top end is warm and not cold at all.
It seems like it's the circulation fan or something similar?
Any way to confirm/test that it's the fan?
Cheers!
Hey Guys,
So I've finally got around to doing a bit of investigating.
It seems like the fan is running? (See link for photos).
But I'm definitely sure it has to do with the circulation inside the freezer, as the fridge has been working as per normal, whilst the freezer still hovers around the 15 degree mark and does not freeze anything.
From my research, the fan is responsible for circulating the air?
Could the fan not be running at the correct speed?
Link : https://imgur.com/a/dz5z2
(Last photo is a photo of the fan)
Is this a good question?
Could your fridge have accidentally been set to demo mode?

Jun 10, 2018 by 
carla allen 




jayeff

@jayeff


Rep: 457.8k


                                 11                              


                                 370                              


                                 1.4k                              


               Posted: Dec 23, 2017 

Hi @rajalot ,
Here is a link to the spare parts for your model fridge.
It shows that there are 3 fans for your fridge. One in each cabinet (fridge and freezer), to circulate the air and one outside the cabinets to cool the compressor and condenser coils.
I'd check the fan in the freezer cabinet to ensure that it is not iced up and that it is  operating OK.
The reason why the freezer is cold at the bottom is that cold air falls down. (It is heavier than warm air). So while the evaporator is very cold (freezing cold in fact) there is no air being blown across it to cool the entire cabinet only the air surrounding the evaporator area.
Here is a link to the parts for the freezer section (or click on the exploded view1 pdf link in the page from the link above.
Here is a link to the freezer fan -Item 10-2 part #1692719 and case motor Item 10-4 part #1692689 both found on p.2 of the parts list.
Hopefully this is of some help.
Hi @rajalot ,
You have shown pictures of the compressor fan. This cools the condenser coils which are "hot" from the heat extracted from the fridge. (you could vacuum away all the dust, the cooling coils will appreciate it!)
The evaporator fan is inside the freezer cabinet  behind a panel. This fan drags air over the "freezing cold" evaporator unit causing cold air to circulate throughout the freezer. Be careful, your fingers can literally stick to the evaporator unit if you touch it. It is freezing cold (unless the fridge is in the defrost cycle when it warms up (because no refrigerant is passing through it) to allow the ice build up to melt away -i.e. defrost)
You need to remove the back panel (from the inside of the cabinet) and check out the fan there.
As I said above check out "exploded view 1" in the link to see how the evaporator fan sits behind the panel in the freezer cabinet.
Was this answer helpful?
1 Comment:
@jayeff
You're a bloody legend! Your replies are easy to follow and your comments explain everything so well.
Just thought I'd let you know - shall follow up the steps above and report back soon :)

Feb 6, 2018 by 
Rajdeep Singh 




Augustine

@salmonjapan


Rep: 16.4k


                                 11                              


                                 17                              


                                 19                              


               Posted: Dec 14, 2017 

Hi @rajalot
Check some things, is the compressor running?
e.g. like hearing motor / fan running ?
check for any possible clogs also.
Was this answer helpful?
1 Comment:
Hey,
Appreciate the reply and sorry for the late reply!
When the fridge and freezer doors are closed, I can hear a whizzing noise (most likely the fan), and I'm pretty sure it's a noise I haven't hear before.
Also, the freezer cools but the cold air does not circulate - the bottom end of the freezer is working as expected and freezes items & ice cubes, but the top end is warm and not cold at all.
It seems like it's the circulation fan or something similar?
Any way to confirm/test that it's the fan?
Cheers!

Dec 23, 2017 by 
Rajdeep Singh 




jayeff

@jayeff


Rep: 457.8k


                                 11                              


                                 370                              


                                 1.4k                              


               Posted: Mar 21, 2019 

Hi @Rose Swift,
You have not quoted a full model number, so I can't help more fully, but if you can hear a "whirring" sound in the freezer compartment but there is no air movement it may be that the evaporator fan blades have come adrift from the evaporator fan motor shaft, so that the motor turns (and whirs) but not the blade.
Frost build up is normal as warmer air enters the freezer when the door is opened and the moisture in the warmer air ‘freezes” on the colder interior sides of the compartment.
That is why most refrigerators these days have auto defrost . This occurs once every 8-12 hours (depending on maker). The compressor is stopped, the fans are stopped (you don’t want to blow cold air out unnecessarily when the doors are opened) and the evaporator defrost heater is turned on. The auto defrost lasts for about 20-30 minutes and then the compressor and fans start up again to drive temps back to the required settings.
Is there a freezer door switch that you can manually operate simulating that the door is closed to verify that there is no air flow in the freezer? The fan is turned off when a door is opened. Apologies if you have already done this.
Check that the evaporator fan is OK.
If you search online for (insert full model number) parts you should get results for suppliers which show exploded parts diagrams of all the parts so that you can see where the fan is situated behind a panel.
Was this answer helpful?
14 Comments:
Hello. Thank you for the response. It is a GE PROFILE Arctica PSS27SHNABS. There is no air circulation when I manually push the freezer door switch.
The whirring/growling sound (for lack of a better way to describe it) is constant when the doors are closed, stops when doors are opened and will start up upon leaving a door open for a minute or so. The separate fan in the refrigerator’s “custom cool" drawer does power up and blows just fine when that feature is utilized & the condenser fan is also functioning at the rear, underside of the fridge.
I suspected that the evap fan/motor could be the issue. Thank you for the suggestion…It makes sense that it could be just the fan blades vs. the motor.  Accessing the evaporator fan even for visual inspection seems to be a bit more involved on this unit. Doable, but just more of a pain.
Do you happen to have any other suggestions for diagnosing without disassembling?  The fridge does get to 37F but the freezer not below 10F & both lose some temp when the doors are opened & closed. A light frost begins to develop on the interior freezer back panel.
Thanks!!

Mar 22, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 



Hi @ Rose Swift,
Don't know your particular model but the evaporator fan starting up after a while with the door open may be a feature to try and maintain the desired temperature as it will be going up with the door open. A lot of other makes either give an alarm after a few minutes to warn to close the door or don't turn on the fan at all again until the door is closed and hope that the user remembers to close the door.
It may be understandable that the fridge temp is OK given that the freezer is at 10F. Normally the freezer should be at 0F and the damper unit controls the airflow into the fridge from the freezer to get the desired fridge temp. So the freezer being at 10F may still allow the fridge to be at 37F if the doors weren't opened too often. It may mean that the damper stays open for longer than it would if the freezer were at 0F with the fan operating.
As I said earlier a light frost could be because of warmer (humid maybe) air entering when the door is opened. Admittedly without the fan distributing the cold air around the compartment the frost may occur more quickly at the coldest place  which would be the closest point to or on the evaporator unit, (10F is still well below freezing point).
I think that you have already done the diagnosing ;-)
There is no airflow in the freezer with the compressor running and the door(s) closed or simulated closed and you can hear the sound of a motor that stops when the door is opened and starts again when it is closed. Exactly what a evaporator fan is supposed to do.
You may just have to bite the bullet and remove the panel to get a look at the fan.
The parts diagram for your model show that the evaporator fan blade - part #613 - click on Freezer Section Parts diagram is separate to the fan motor so hopefully it may just have come loose from the shaft.
Good luck with the repair.

Mar 22, 2019 by 
jayeff 



Hello, I bit the bullet & disassembled. Unfortunately,  the evaporator fan blade was attached as it should be & did turn freely with a small bit of resistance. The main thing I noticed out of the ordinary upon visual inspection is that  screws/ brackets  611 and 612, which hold the evap fan motor,  are EXTREMELY rusted. As is the ground wire sandwiched between them.
Soaking with some WD40 currently, as it is impossible to even get the screws to budge should I need to troubleshoot further. What should I check from here? & would the rust be a potential factor?
Update:
Just finally got the rusted brackets unscrewed.. I had read about the grommets being a potential factor, as well. They look to be ok on visual inspection. How would I know if they too, are an issue?
Since I “hear" a possible fan motor sound when the doors are closed…does that mean a new motor would likely not be necessary or help?
Not sure how to move forward from here.
Thanks again!!

Mar 25, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 



Hi @ Rose Swift,
With the compressor running, did you actually see the fan turning by holding the door switch closed or did you turn it manually just to see if it did?
Strange that there is no airflow felt from the vents when the fan is running then

Mar 25, 2019 by 
jayeff 



Do you mean after disassembling? Much of the interior freezer had to be removed from this model to even get access/visual of the evaporator fan…  Didn't know if it was ok to plug the unit in to see if the fan would run… or if too many materials/integrated electrical components (icemaker, lighting, etc.)  had been removed to do that?
What should I try next?

Mar 25, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 




Show 9 more comments


Richard W

@sundaydriver


Rep: 53


                                 3                              


               Posted: Dec 14, 2017 

Most Domestic refers are single evaporator systems... this means all cooling occurring in the  fresh food compartment occurs because of the heat exchange occurring in the freezer (due to evaporator heat absorption). Your refer use a dual evaporator, single compressor system. each compartment cools individually. through not at the same time. Most Ice maker start their harvest cycle when their mold T-stat reaches approx. 10dgs f. If the refer is in a thermos hold or defrost state the fans will not be operating. Generally the evap and condenser fans operate in series with the compressor, but not always. is the compressor and condenser fans operating.
1st item of business should be is the freezer evap fan operating. most of the Samsung / LG fans are very quite when running.  Some fans turn off when the doors are open... some don't. Open the freezer door and listen, if not hold the door switch (if present, some models use a hidden magnetic reed switch to sense door action) closed and give it 15sec to sense.  Do you hear a whirling rotational noise. If not and or if so... next touch along the back wall of the freezer. Do you feel frosty ice... if so you might have a defrost failure and it may be restricting the evap fan.  (most not the easiest to access or service). Further help would need further answers from you.
Was this answer helpful?
2 Comments:
Hey,
Appreciate the reply and sorry for the late reply!
When the fridge and freezer doors are closed, I can hear a whizzing noise (most likely the fan), and I'm pretty sure it's a noise I haven't hear before.
Also, the freezer cools but the cold air does not circulate - the bottom end of the freezer is working as expected and freezes items & ice cubes, but the top end is warm and not cold at all.
It seems like it's the circulation fan or something similar?
Any way to confirm/test that it's the fan?
Cheers!

Dec 23, 2017 by 
Rajdeep Singh 



Exact same issue as the above with GE side by side Profile  PSS27HNA BS.  Replaced main control board. Freezer still no lower than 10 degrees  a day later after unplugging for 24 hrs. Fridge cools but they both loose temp after opening and closing doors. Hear a constant whirring sound when doors are closed as if a fan... but there is no air moving in the freezer.  Feel a light frost rebuilding on rear freezer panel.

Mar 21, 2019 by 
Rose Swift 



Past 24 Hours: 18
Past 7 Days: 72
Past 30 Days: 394
All Time: 66,963


						Stack Exchange network consists of 183 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.
					

            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
        

            Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
            Explore Teams

Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
After throwing a thermometer in my freezer, it is around 15-20 degrees Fahrenheit. Things that have been in there and frozen are staying frozen, but anything new that needs to freeze is not.
For example, 24 hours ago I put some of those "colored ice pops" in there and maybe 3 or 4 froze, the rest are just cold.
It is a Freezer/Refrigerator combo with the freezer on top.
What could be causing this and how would I go about fixing it?
EDIT
It looks like the back panel of my freezer is popping off for some reason. I think that this what causes it to not stay cold. Is it possible to pop it back on?
EDIT TWO
The fridge is still warm, even though it is dialed to the max. The freezer is running heavy and is around 15 degrees.
Freezers aren't really designed to freeze things, they're designed to keep things frozen.  To change one pound of 32°F ice to 31°F ice, requires the removal of .5 BTUs. To change one pound of 32°F water, to 32°F ice, requires 144 BTUs. Therefore, it requires far less energy to keep an item frozen, than it does to freeze the item in the first place.
Almost all sources (including the USDA) agree that a freezer should be kept at 0°F (-18°C), to store frozen foods. Though a temperature of -5 to -10, is recommended to freeze food. 
If the back panel of the freezer is popping off, you might want to investigate what is causing it to pop off. If there is ice forming that is causing the panel to pop off, it could mean that the refrigerant in the system is low, and there may be a leak. This is probably a unlikely scenario, though it is possible. 
The more likely cause, is poor air flow.
If there's not good air flow through the condenser, the heat removed from the refrigerated compartments will not be removed from the refrigerant.  At the same time, if the air flow through the evaporator is poor, heat will not be removed from the refrigerated compartments effectively. Maintaining good air flow within the refrigerated compartments is also important. The cooled air needs to move throughout the compartment, so heat can be taken away.
15-20 degrees isn't cold enough, believe it or not :)  There needs to be a significant temperature difference to rapidly draw the heat out of the items you want to freeze.
For example, current Whirlpool refrigerator/freezer units come preset to 0-degrees (F, not C) for the freezer and 37-degrees (F) for the fridge.  According to this document, the freezer range is from -5 to 5 (F), and the fridge can be set from 33 to 41 (F).
Make it colder, and save your fish :)
If the meat is frozen but not the iceceam then the refrigerant is leaking out of your refrigerator/freezer. I paid $100.00 yesterday to find out mine is going bad and too expensive to bother fixing it. 
I had a self defrosting refrigerator that the line to ice tray under refrigerator was plugged. Ice would melt off coils then puddle in freezer and eventually plug the flow of cool air to refrigerator and freezer didn't cool right either. Ccheck for ice behind the panel being pushed out; get out your hair dryer and pour water down drain line.
Reminder: Answers generated by artificial intelligence tools are not allowed on Home Improvement Stack Exchange. Learn more
Thanks for contributing an answer to Home Improvement Stack Exchange!
But avoid …
To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Required, but never shown
Required, but never shown

                                                By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.

To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.

Site design / logo © 2024 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under CC BY-SA.                    rev 2024.6.14.10983



              This sub-reddit is for almost anything related to appliances. 

Need to fix your stove, cook-top, oven, refrigerator, washer or dryer? Thinking about buying a new one?

You've come to the right place! 

Please post your questions, comments or complaints!

If you sell or service appliances your opinion is very valuable, but  advertising and spam will not be allowed in posts (with the exception of the monthly recommendation posts).
            

    About two years ago we had a large amount of ice accumulating on the bottom of the freezer. We had someone come out and defrost the coils and the freezer has ran great since, until today. The freezer and fridge are dry as a bone. There is no accumulated water or ice. So I don’t think it’s that same issue. I did notice a mysterious puddle a few days ago under my fridge but assume it was just a spilled cup of water from my kids. Now I’m thinking it was ice melting out of the ice maker. The freezer isn’t getting cold enough for the ice maker to turn on and I noticed everything except the bottom inch of the freezer had 100% thawed. I put a thermometer in my freezer and it’s hanging out around exactly 32F but it’s set to -2F.
  

    Does this sound like a fridge is dying situation, coolant leak, or something else?
  


When your freezer’s not cold enough, the food you’re storing can suffer and spoil. To avoid losing your frozen meats, veggies, and leftovers to the thaw, here are some troubleshooting tips to help keep things chilly and your food safe. However, if your frozen food does start to thaw, we recommend replacing it since there’s no way to tell if it’s still safe to eat. 
Freezers can lose their cool and go bad for a lot of reasons, so the first step is to figure out if it’s an easy fix or if you need to call an expert for freezer repair. Here are some of the most common reasons why your freezer may not be staying cold enough: 
Dirty condenser coils. These coils are the main part of the cooling capacity in your freezer. When they get blocked or dirty, they lose effectiveness. Your condenser coils look like a series of coiled metal tubing, sometimes behind a metal mesh or a grate. If accessible, they should be in the freezer box, behind the cover at the back of your freezer. Luckily, cleaning the coils can fix the problem. 
Malfunctioning evaporator fan. You need a functioning evaporator fan to circulate cool air to everything in the freezer. A broken motor can bring up the temperature in your appliance. The fan is located behind the back cover of your freezer, likely above or next to the condenser coils. 
Broken start relay. The compressor moves the air through the freezer's warming and cooling functions, and the start relay powers the compressor. A broken relay can cause the whole air circulation system to shut down. Your appliance may be making a clicking sound while running if this is the case. This requires professional freezer part replacement.  
Defective electronic controls. If you cannot find a problem with any of the freezer parts, the freezer may not be receiving power. Check your freezer’s settings to make sure “demo mode” is off. If the light doesn’t come on when you open the freezer door, check the outlet by plugging in something like a lamp or hairdryer. If the outlet and settings are fine, the electronic controls may have gone bad. If the electrical outlet is causing your freezer problems, reach out to an experienced local electrician.
Faulty defrost thermostat. When the contacts on a defrost thermostat stop working, the freezer can’t tell how cold or warm it is. If the freezer temperature is set correctly and you don’t see excessive frost that could be blocking air flow, the thermostat likely needs to be replaced.   
Related Topic: How Long Do Freezers Last? 
Don’t worry if you don’t want to reach for the phone right away. It’s an option to run a few checks on your freezer first. Depending on what’s wrong, some troubleshooting steps can be dangerous if you aren’t trained, so take precautions before proceeding (e.g., unplug the unit!) and contact an expert when troubleshooting goes beyond your expertise and comfort level.  
The freezer’s not working, but the fridge is. If your fridge is cold but your freezer is warm, you know that the whole appliance isn’t broken. A part of the freezer is to blame for the malfunction. Try troubleshooting the problem in this order: Double-check your freezer settings. Clean your condenser coils. Check if the evaporator fan runs by opening the door, then holding down the door switch to trick the freezer into thinking it’s shut. Then test the start relay with a multimeter. 
How to make your freezer colder. Control the temperature settings of your freezer via the temperature control thermostat. Check that it’s functioning by rotating it from the lowest setting to the highest setting. If the thermostat doesn’t click when it hits the highest setting, it’s likely defective. Check that the defrost thermostat, which is connected to the condenser coils, is fully clear of buildup and frost. Brush it off if necessary. 
Freezer has power but isn’t running. Especially if your freezer is new, make sure all the demo settings are off and your freezer is set to run as normal. If the fridge has power, the problem may lie in your freezer’s electronic systems. These are best replaced by an expert technician. 
Only one part of the freezer is freezing. The most likely cause of a partial freeze, or “cool zones,” is a sealed system leak. You may also see one part of the evaporator coil frosting over while the rest seems fine. If this happens, it may be most cost-effective to replace the entire appliance. 
Chest freezer not working. Chest freezers often stop working for many of the same reasons that standing freezers do. Check the settings, compressor, condenser coils, evaporator fan, defrost thermostat, and power supply for issues as you would in an upright freezer. You’ll also need to check the lid gasket to ensure it seals properly when closed. If part of the seal is broken or weak, you’ll need the whole gasket to be replaced. 
If your freezer overcorrects and starts frosting over, learn how to handle frost buildup in your freezer. 
A freezer that is not staying cold enough is not only an inconvenience, it can also be costly when your food continues to spoil. Whether you think you’ve found the problem, or you’re still stumped, the most efficient next step is to have an expert confirm the freezer issue and fix it fast. Your local Mr. Appliance has the parts and expertise to fix your faulty freezer so you can store your frozen foods safely. Schedule an appointment online today.  
By entering your email address, you agree to receive emails about services, updates or promotions, and you agree to the  Terms and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Diagnostic Fee - Our in-home service professionals will look at your appliance, diagnose the problem, and give you an exact quote. If you choose not to have the repair done, you pay only the diagnostic fee.
A representative will be in touch with you shortly. If you have any additional questions, please call us at the number above.

Your ZIP/Postal code is outside of our standard service area. Please choose from the list below of nearby locations.

Your address allows us to provide you with the best service possible:

Service Category
Select a specific service below to proceed:
Mr. Appliance will perform services in a professional, workmanlike manner, consistent with industry standards.
Terms, conditions and exclusions apply. Services performed by independently owned and operated franchises.
Service type:*
or choose from the popular services for  change
Diagnostic Fee - Our in-home service professionals will look at your appliance, diagnose the problem, and give you an exact quote. If you choose not to have the repair done, you pay only the  diagnostic fee.
For EMERGENCY same day scheduling please call (603) 728-4145 otherwise choose from our scheduling options below.
Date and Time Selected:

Diagnostic Fee - Our in-home service professionals will look at your appliance, diagnose the problem, and give you an exact quote. If you choose not to have the repair done, you pay only the $99 diagnostic fee.

Searching through dozens of home service providers is a thing of the past. Rely on Neighborly’s national network of trusted, local home service professionals for all your home service needs.
Contact Us 
Copyright © 2024 Mr. Appliance, All rights reserved. This information is not intended as an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy a franchise. It is for information purposes only. Mr. Appliance is a registered trademark of Mr. Appliance SPV LLC.
Copyright © 2024 Mr. Appliance, All rights reserved. This information is not intended as an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy a franchise. It is for information purposes only. Mr. Appliance is a registered trademark of Mr. Appliance SPV LLC.
 
© 2024 Neighborly Company and its affiliates. All rights reserved. Neighborly is a registered trademark of Neighborly Assetco LLC. This site and all of its content is protected under applicable law, including laws of the U.S. and other countries. Each location is independently owned and operated. State, provincial, and local laws may impact the services this independently owned and operated franchise location may perform at this time. Please contact the franchise location for additional information.


© 2024 Neighborly Company and its affiliates. All rights reserved. Neighborly is a registered trademark of Neighborly Assetco LLC. This site and all of its content is protected under applicable law, including laws of the U.S. and other countries. Each location is independently owned and operated. State, provincial, and local laws may impact the services this independently owned and operated franchise location may perform at this time. Please contact the franchise location for additional information.


There could be several reasons for this issue. It could be due to a malfunctioning compressor, a faulty thermostat, a damaged door seal, or a refrigerant leak. It is best to have a professional technician diagnose and fix the problem.
If your chest freezer is unplugged and won't freeze, there are a few things you can do to troubleshoot the issue. First, make sure the power cord is securely plugged into an outlet. Check the circuit breaker to ensure it hasn't tripped. If these are not the problem, it could be a malfunctioning compressor or thermostat, and a professional should be contacted.
In most cases, a chest freezer can be repaired if it won't freeze. However, it depends on the cause of the issue. If it is a minor problem like a faulty thermostat or damaged door seal, it can likely be fixed. If it is a major issue like a refrigerant leak or compressor malfunction, it may be more cost-effective to replace the freezer.
The length of time that food can stay frozen in an unplugged chest freezer depends on several factors, such as the temperature outside, the amount of food in the freezer, and the type of food. In general, food can stay frozen for 24-48 hours in an unplugged chest freezer if the door remains closed.
To prevent your chest freezer from unplugging and not freezing, make sure it is plugged into a dedicated outlet and not an extension cord. Keep the freezer away from heat sources and ensure the door seal is intact. Regularly defrost and clean the freezer to maintain its efficiency. If you notice any issues, have them addressed promptly by a professional technician.

Discover repair information including guides and tips for Whirlpool Refrigerators. Our comprehensive resources offer detailed instructions for troubleshooting and fixing common issues in various Whirlpool refrigerator models.

Mark McGarrity

@markmcgarrity


Rep: 1


               Posted: Jul 29, 2023 

I have searched everywhere, but have not found anything on the issue that I am facing.  We had a power outage and after power returned my top mounted freezer is cold, but not freezing.
I have removed that back panel to expose the evaporator coils and the copper piping that joins the evaporator coils is a solid block, but there is zero build up on the coils themselves.  The fan is also working without issue.
Although maybe unrelated, I have check the defrost heater and it shows continuity.  Airflow is not an issue, since the freezer is now empty.
I tried blocking the airflow into the fridge so that the thermostat would think it is warmer then it was in the freezer - but it made no difference.
Any help is appreciated !
Is this a good question?
Hi @markmcgarrity,
What is the model number of the refrigerator?
What is the actual temperature in the freezer compartment? Use a thermometer in case the display temp (if there is one) is wrong.

Jul 29, 2023 by 
jayeff 



Hi Jayeff
Model: YET2ALDOKXDH03
The freezer gets down to around 40 degrees F, measured using an analog meat thermometer.

Jul 29, 2023 by 
Mark McGarrity 




Alisha C

@flannelist


Rep: 33.7k


                                 26                              


                                 38                              


                                 33                              


               Posted: Jul 29, 2023 

I don't have any specific expertise in refrigerators, but while you wait for someone to chime in who may have a more specific solution, have a look at the Whirlpool Freezer Not Freezing troubleshooting page. There's some pretty extensive steps and things you can check to point you in the right direction.
Was this answer helpful?
1 Comment:
Thank you.  I have done most of the items in that list, but there were some I thought would not be relevant, but I might as well try them :)

Jul 29, 2023 by 
Mark McGarrity 




jayeff

@jayeff


Rep: 457.8k


                                 11                              


                                 370                              


                                 1.4k                              


               Posted: Jul 29, 2023 

Hi @markmcgarrity
Please confirm the model number of the refrigerator?
Here's a list of all the Whirlpool 4YET2* models that I could find, from this supplier and also this supplier as I couldn't find anything regarding YET2AL* models.
The answer above has a check list that mentions checking the door seals. Sometimes a visual inspection may not indicate a problem that could be there. If you haven't already done so, place a sheet of paper between the freezer door and the freezer door jamb and with the door closed normally i.e. no pressure on it by you to keep it closed, try pulling it out. It will come out with a bit of an effort but not easily and it definitely shouldn't fall out by itself. Do this at various places around the door, top, bottom and both sides. Also check the door alignment to ensure that it is parallel to the cabinet in case it is a hinge problem
Is the compressor running continually trying to get the temp down? If the compressor does stop occasionally then the problem may be due to a faulty temp sensor or control board thinking that the temp is OK when it's not.
Is the evap unit in the freezer icy cold i.e. 0°F to the touch?
Is the condenser unit under the fridge near the compressor warm to the touch?
If the answers are yes, no and yes then there's a problem with the sealed system.
The sealed system comprises the compressor, evaporator unit, condenser unit, filter dryer and associated piping.
If the temp is not right and the compressor is running continually, then this could be due to either a faulty compressor, a lack of refrigerant (leak? - look for oily residue on pipes near condenser and compressor) a blockage in the system (check for ice build up on the pipes near the compressor/condenser) or in the filter dryer perhaps.
To check the sealed system depending on your location you may have to to get a licensed refrigerator repair service. This is due to the environmental regulations regarding the handling of refrigerant gases
Was this answer helpful?
Past 24 Hours: 13
Past 7 Days: 77
Past 30 Days: 354
All Time: 1,127

Error retrieving content

Create a new account & save 10% using code SAVETEN24❖ See Details
❖Ends July 10, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
Providing your exact location will allow us to ensure our products are available in your area.
ZIP Code:
Hello,



                        All Merchandise in Cart:
                    


                        Order Discount:
                    


                        Total: (Before Taxes, Shipping, and Services):
                    

Link your shopping cart across all your devices!
 to your account to save and access your shopping cart on your desktop, tablet, or mobile device.
Be sure to check out our latest offers to start saving!

                            Cooktops
                        

                            Dishwashers
                        

                            Microwaves
                        

                            Refrigeration 
                        

                            Ranges
                        

                            Smart Appliances
                        

                            Range Hoods
                        

                            Wall Ovens
                        

                            Washers
                        

                            Dryers
                        

                            Laundry Sets
                        

                            Commercial Laundry
                        

                            Smart Appliances
                        

                            Home Solutions
                        

                            Water Filters
                        

                            Appliance Cleaners
                        

                            Kitchen Parts & Accessories
                        

                            Laundry Parts & Accessories
                        

                            Appliance Sales
                        

                            Whirlpool® Outlet
                        

                            Discount Programs
                        

                            Financing
                        

                            Product Support
                        

                            Repair or Replace
                        
Additional contact info and hours of operation.

*
      Required Information
    

Forgot your Password?


or

Complete Your Account
Whirlpool will be using the following information we gathered from the external platform you selected to create your account.
block.addtocart.message

                        Session Time Out
                    

                            Your session is about to expire.
                        

                        Session Timed Out
                    

                            Your session has expired.
                        
When it comes to storing food, your freezer is essential, allowing you to reach for a quick dinner and put meals together for your family. If your freezer is too cold, it may not always spoil food items but this extra chill can be an indication of a potential issue. This guide offers insight into what might be going on with your freezer and can help you troubleshoot the issue. 
If you’re a Whirlpool® Freezer owner, you can also refer to the troubleshooting page for possible causes and fixes for your freezer, or contact Service & Support.

While it may seem counterintuitive that a freezer is too cold, be sure to look for signs to avoid any potential problems. Knowing the parts of a freezer and how a freezer works may also help you uncover the issue and find a solution. Keep in mind that it’s a good idea to consult your owner’s manual for detailed information on your specific model. 
The first thing to check is the temperature setting on your freezer. The recommended freezer temperature to keep frozen food safe is usually around 0°F (-18°C). If your freezer is located in a garage or basement, or there are other environmental factors, you may need to set the temperature higher or lower.
Frozen food is typically safe to eat indefinitely if your freezer stays at or below 0°F (-18°C). However, if your freezer is running too cold or there’s a fluctuation in temperature, this may cause freezer burn. Check for ice crystals on the outside of food. While food with freezer burn is usually safe to eat, the food’s flavor and texture may be compromised. A few ways to help reduce freezer burn include allowing your hot food to cool before freezing it and keeping your freezer at the proper temperature setting.
Frost or ice buildup on the interior of your freezer may indicate that the temperature is too cold. This buildup may be covering freezer air vents and temperature sensors, which can interfere with climate control. If your freezer doesn’t have an auto-defrost feature, you can remove excessive frost buildup manually by allowing the ice to melt. You may need to call a service professional if the problem persists, as it may involve a bigger issue, such as a compressor malfunction
There may be various reasons why your freezer is too cold. Fixing it might be as simple as setting the temperature to around 0°F (-18°C) or resetting your freezer. Allow 24 hours for the temperature to adjust. Defrost your freezer if you have excessive frost buildup, as this can lower the temperature. 
Make sure the air vents inside your freezer are clean and not blocked by food items or you may end up with ice and frost buildup. If you have an ice maker that’s on but not hooked up to a water supply, this may be the reason your freezer is too cold.
The following steps offer ways to address a freezer that’s too cold. Consider using your owner’s manual to troubleshoot the issue as well. This freezer guide also has tips that can assist you in diagnosing the problem. If you're unable to resolve the issue, you may want to contact a service professional. 
Soft cleaning cloth
Clean rags or towels
Baking soda 
If your freezer is too cold, you may need to adjust the temperature control to a warmer setting. The recommended freezer factory setting on Whirlpool® Refrigerators is 0°F (-18°C). Once you’ve adjusted the temperature, double-check it after 24 hours. 

Keep in mind that if the freezer is in a garage or basement, humidity or outside temperatures may affect the setting. When changing your freezer’s temperature, make minor adjustments and allow your freezer to adapt for 24 hours before changing it again. 
Use the following steps to reset your freezer:
Unplug your freezer from the outlet.
Turn the freezer's control panel off by adjusting the controls to zero or using a shut-off switch (consult your manual for instructions).
Wait a few minutes.
Plug the freezer back in.
Set the freezer's temperature settings to 0°F (-18°C).
After completing these steps, it can take up to 24 hours for the freezer's temperature to adjust upon resetting.
Blocked freezer vents can lead to issues like frost, inconsistent temperatures and moisture buildup. Clear away food items and organize your freezer to ensure proper airflow around the vents. Air vents are usually located inside the freezer compartment, but if in doubt, refer to your owner’s manual. 
Another way to help maintain proper temperature efficiency in your freezer is to clear frost and residue off the air vents and fans. Locate the vent inside your freezer, and wipe it with a soft cleaning cloth to gently remove frost or ice buildup.

You can use a mixture of warm water and baking soda to clean your freezer’s interior walls, if necessary. Avoid using abrasive, harsh cleaners or scouring pads when cleaning the interior.
If the ice maker is on but not connected to a water supply, it can lower the freezer’s temperature, causing the appliance to be too cold. You may hear a buzzing noise as the ice maker continues to try to make ice. Make sure to turn the ice maker off if it’s not connected to a water supply.
If your freezer doesn't have an auto-defrost option and you notice ice and frost buildup, it may help to defrost your freezer.
Unplug or turn your freezer off and remove all the food items and safely pack them away in a cooler.
Prepare the area by placing towels or plastic liners in front of the freezer. You can use rags or towels to dry the shelves. 
Keep the freezer door open to allow any frost or ice to melt. Using a fan may speed up the process. 
Clean the bottom of the freezer and wipe the shelves. For extra cleaning power, mix one tablespoon of baking soda and four cups of hot water and use it to clean the interior. Dry the interior thoroughly. 
Turn your freezer back on and wait for it to reach the proper temperature before replacing your food. 
Whirlpool® Deep Freezers make it easy to bulk buy and shop sales for your family’s favorite items. Select models have features such as Frost-Free Defrost that automatically prevents frost buildup, so you’ll likely never have to empty the freezer for a manual defrost again. Explore the full line of innovative freezers from Whirlpool brand to find the right fit for you.












Ready for more tips, home hacks and appliance guides?

 Model:  



Color:  



Quantity:  



Subscribe to Receive  
:
                            




Total Price:  



                     Connect with Us
                  
 
®/™ © 2023 Whirlpool. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area

 
®/™ © 2023 Whirlpool. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are owned by their respective companies.
This online merchant is located in the United States at 600 West Main Street, Benton Harbor, MI 49022.
The listed price may differ from actual selling prices in your area
Hang in there, we are looking for alternate products just for you.
Have You Considered These?
We use your information in accordance with our privacy policy.

Unlock prices
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Offer subject to change. Promo code sent to new account holder email. No cash value. Cannot be combined with other offers or rebates. While supplies last. One-time use only.
 when you use code SAVETEN24 on your first purchase with a new account
Buy more, save more
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off regular or sale price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. While supplies last.

Discount applied in cart
Flash sale
Ends 6/19/24
Ends June 19, 2024 10:00 AM EST. Excludes ground shipped products. Discount taken off sale and regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on www.whirlpool.com . Offer subject to change. No cash value. While supplies last.
on select appliances when you use promo code ENJOY10
Limited-time offer
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 at 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery and install services vary by location- see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Only valid on new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers and dryers.
Use promo code LAUNDRYINSTALL
Available now!
Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 10:00AM EST. Excludes ground-shipped products. Discount taken off regular price excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid for new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, microwaves, wall ovens, ranges, cooktops, hoods, and dishwashers. While supplies last.
Discover the best deals on select closeout appliances

Ends 6/18/24
Ends June 18, 2024 11:59PM EST. Availability of delivery, haul-away and install services vary by location - see checkout for services available to you. Excludes ground shipped products. Dollar threshold based on sale price of in-home delivery products excluding taxes, delivery, install/uninstall, and haul-away. Only valid on new orders on whirlpool.com. Major appliances limited to washers, dryers, refrigerators, ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, microwaves and hoods. Cannot be combined with Professional discounts. 
Discount applied in cart
Account Holder Exclusives
On Select Appliances

Error retrieving content

Walk-in coolers can occasionally “freeze up.” Depending on the severity of your problem, this can take many forms. On the less-problematic end, you may notice frost buildup on the windows, paneling, and outside packaging of food. On the more-problematic end, you may see large ice crystals, warming temperatures, and damaged products. Regardless of the intensity, no level of freezing up is desirable. Today, let’s better understand why your walk-in cooler may be freezing up.
 Depending on your specific model of a walk-in cooler, there are many reasons why ice could be building up in less-than-ideal locations. That being said, there are a few common things to look out for that may be the main culprit. 
 A walk-in cooler freezing up isn’t just a nuisance – it can damage your unit and reduce its operating lifespan. When significant amounts of ice build-up, damage can occur to many parts of the walk-in.
 First and foremost, the manual that came with your unit will likely have a section on how to look out for and prevent freeze up. It will likely recommend routine check-ups for your unit which is a good first step in preventing build-up.
With that in mind, the primary way to prevent expensive and damaging freezing up is to catch it early! In the beginning stages of ice build-up, you may notice a thin frost layer on many surfaces in the walk-in. This is a good hint that you’ll need to check every one of the locations mentioned above and talk with employees to make sure the door is not being opened for longer than necessary and that product is being stacked away from the evaporator. 
Another great way to minimize humid air infiltration is to install heavy-duty vinyl walk-in curtains. This is especially useful for reducing ice ups in units that open to hot areas, like kitchens.
While a walk-in cooler freezing up can be a hassle, it is also easy to prevent if proper maintenance protocols are followed. 
Beacon Sales Group

Beacon Sales Group

AMG Foodservice Sales

8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
NYC Metro, Newburg, Poughkeepsie, and Upstate

730 Old Kitchawan Road North
Ossining
NY 10562
430 Senoia Road
Fairburn
GA 30213
Seattle
WA 98199
Seattle
WA 98199
Seattle
WA 98199
California

430 Senoia Road
Fairburn
GA 30213
West

West

430 Senoia Road
Fairburn
GA 30213
430 Senoia Road
Fairburn
GA 30213
740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
Outside of El Paso

Outside of El Paso

El Paso Only

740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
El Paso Only

740 Umatilla Street
Denver
CO 80204
North of I-72 (including Springfield)

North of I-72 (including Springfield)

South of I-74 (including Springfield)

Arctic Foodservice

South of I-74 (including Springfield)

The Pinnacle Group

13761 St. Charles Rock Road
Bridgeton
MO 63044
Upper Peninsula

PRF Marketing, Inc.

Upper Peninsula

PRF Marketing, Inc.

Lower Peninsula

AMG Foodservice Sales

8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
Lower Peninsula

AMG Foodservice Sales

8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
PRF Marketing, Inc.

PRF Marketing, Inc.

PRF Marketing, Inc.

New Jersey

730 Old Kitchawan Road North
Ossining
NY 10562
New Jersey

730 Old Kitchawan Road North
Ossining
NY 10562
72 E. Holly Avenue Suite 101
Pitman
NJ 08071
72 E. Holly Avenue Suite 101
Pitman
NJ 08071
NEMA

72 E. Holly Avenue Suite 101
Pitman
NJ 08071
8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
East

72 E. Holly Avenue Suite 101
Pitman
NJ 08071
East

72 E. Holly Avenue Suite 101
Pitman
NJ 08071
730 Old Kitchawan Road North
Ossining
NY 10562
730 Old Kitchawan Road North
Ossining
NY 10562
Outside of Fairfield County

Outside of Fairfield County

1444 20th Street North
St. Petersburg
FL 33713
1444 20th Street North
St. Petersburg
FL 33713
430 Senoia Road
Fairburn
GA 30213
430 Senoia Road
Fairburn
GA 30213
AMG Foodservice Sales

8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
AMG Foodservice Sales

8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
AMG Foodservice Sales

8017 Catherine Lane Ste 5
Louisville
KY 40222
North of Clark County


SHW Blog
Blog featuring tips, information, and advice for homeowners, renters, buyers, and sellers.
Home » What To Check When Your Freezer’s Not Working
Your freezer is one of the best ways to preserve food. Of course, when it won’t freeze – well, that’s a big problem!
A freezer that stopped working properly causes food spoilage. It can also lead to leaks and other issues. All of this could add up to a huge hit to your finances.
In some cases, you can try troubleshooting the issue. A simple fix may get it back to working condition.
That said, not all freezer problems will be a DIY fix. Sometimes, professional repairs or a replacement may be necessary. In those cases, the right home warranty coverage can help you out.

Read on to see what else you can do when your freezer won’t freeze.
Overstuffing your freezer may lead to the unit not working as it should. Food packages can block the evaporator fan and cause the temperature to rise.
Take some time to organize and ensure no food items are blocking vents at the back of the freezer. After reorganizing, step away for a few hours before checking the temperature again.
If things have cooled down, then your problem is solved.
If not, it’s time to try something else.
A condenser removes excess heat and cools it down, then sends that cool air back to keep your freezer full of cold air. This is one of the main components of the refrigeration cycle happening inside your appliance.
If your freezer has dirty condenser coils, the condenser will need to work harder to keep things frozen. Luckily, this is an easy fix. You just need to clean the condenser coils.
Make sure to unplug your freezer and pull it out from the wall before starting. The condenser is located behind the unit, usually at the bottom. Use a brush and vacuum to remove excess dust.
After you vacuum the coils, you should notice your freezer cooling faster. Your freezer may also be quieter since the condenser won’t have to work as hard.
Not sure if your refrigerator is working right? Check for these signs your fridge needs replacing.
Frost buildup is a surefire sign of a problem with your freezer’s temperature. If this is your issue, check the door seals. They should be snug, and you should have to put a bit of force into opening the door.
If the freezer door is loose, or if you notice cracks in the seal, you should replace the door gaskets. It’s important that everything be aligned properly, so this may be a job for a professional.
We mentioned the evaporator fan above when we discussed overpacking your freezer. In that case, the fan was working properly, but was blocked. If the evaporator fan isn’t running smoothly or not running at all, then a repair or replacement may be needed.
There are several issues that could be the culprit when it comes to a malfunctioning evaporator fan. It could be due to a bad motor, faulty wiring, or another issue. In any case, it’s best to leave this job to a professional.
The start relay is a device that starts the compressor, providing it with power. If the start relay is malfunctioning, then the compressor doesn’t work properly or sometimes doesn’t turn on at all. This will lead to your freezer not getting cold.
If your freezer affects lights or trips a circuit breaker when turning on, the start relay may be the issue. Much like with the other internal components of your freezer, call a service professional for start relay repairs.
A thermostat malfunction is most common with standalone freezers. If you find your freezer isn’t cold enough, this could be the issue.
To check if this is your problem, turn the thermostat to its lowest setting. After a few seconds, turn it to the highest setting. You should hear a click to indicate that the thermostat is working.
If you don’t hear the click, then you probably need a repair or replacement.
Your home warranty with Select can cover your standalone freezer! Find out what else a home warranty covers.
This should be the last option on your freezer troubleshooting list. A broken compressor is a major malfunction that affects your freezer’s ability to freeze.
Your appliance should be making a gentle humming sound periodically. This sound is the compressor kicking on and doing its job freezing your food. Listen for at least 30 minutes. If you don’t hear a humming sound, then you probably have an issue with your freezer’s compressor.
As mentioned, this is a big issue that should be handled by a professional. In a lot of cases, replacing the freezer is the most cost-effective option.
If your icemaker is giving you trouble, look for these common ice maker problems and how to fix them.
With the proper maintenance and care, a freezer can last up to 20 years. A home warranty covers repair costs and replacements for refrigerators and freezers. Select Home Warranty offers coverage for mechanical damage to your appliances through normal everyday use.
Protect your home and your wallet from costly repairs and give yourself peace of mind. Call today to learn more: 860-288-4791.

A home warranty covers repairs that homeowners insurance won’t. Find out more about homeowners insurance vs. home warranties.
Peace of mind is just a quick click away.Select a state to get your free quote.

